
By CATHERINE HICKLEYMARCH 4, 2018

Berlin — There is no dispute that four paintings by Piet Mondrian in the Kaiser Wilhelm Museum in Krefeld are important works from his “neo-plastic” period when he used grids and primary colors to create masterpieces of geometric beauty.
Beyond that, much about the paintings seems to be in doubt.
They have been in the museum since at least 1950, but questions about when exactly they arrived there, and how, have now surfaced as matters of mystery and debate.
The heirs of Mondrian, the pioneering Dutch abstractionist, have staked a claim to the paintings, asserting that he lent them to the museum almost 90 years ago and then left them behind when he fled Europe as World War II deepened.
They have hired an art restitution lawyer, Gunnar Schnabel, and a provenance expert, Monika Tatzkow, who spent three years tracking the paintings back to the days of their creation in the 1920s.
Advertisement
But the city of Krefeld, which owns the museum, says it believes the paintings were gifts from Mondrian, though it has been unable to buttress that claim with evidence.
Mondrian “regularly gave away paintings for which he no longer had any use,” a spokesman for the city wrote in an email response to questions last month.
The heirs dispute that Mondrian was so fond of giving gifts, and suggest that the museum has for decades ignored indications that the paintings were not its property. The heirs have even enlisted a high-profile ally, a former German culture minister, Michael Naumann.
In a letter last fall to the mayor of Krefeld, Mr. Naumann described the history of the paintings as “an unspeakable piece of knavery by the museum’s management since the end of the war in 1945.”
In recent years, many museums have worked to trace the histories of pieces they own, particularly those that may have changed hands during the war.
Advertisement
“Museums should have done provenance research on all the paintings in their collection,” said Sally Yerkovich, who teaches a course on museum ethics at Columbia University in New York. “If they have items of unclear provenance, they should publish these gaps.”
The city of Krefeld said it is planning a comprehensive examination of the provenance of its collection and, in the case of the Mondrians, will be commissioning its own expert to research their history.
Mondrian created the four works during a period when abstraction had taken hold. The researchers for the heirs, who are known as the McManus Holtzman Irrevocable Trust, tracked the paintings to an exhibition in Frankfurt in 1929.
The exhibition was called “The Chair,” and 19 Mondrians, including the four now held by the museum, were offered for sale and displayed above metal tubular chairs, according to Ms. Tatzkow’s research.
A curator planning a show at the Krefeld museum the same year then inquired as to whether some of the Mondrians could be lent to its own exhibition, according to correspondence Ms. Tatzkow found.
The heirs believe at least eight Mondrians were lent to Krefeld as a result, a view supported by a 2010 email from a Krefeld museum curator, Sabine Röder, to the art historian Walter Grasskamp.
“They presumably arrived at the museum in 1930,” Ms. Röder wrote, “when the director at the time, Max Creutz, was planning an exhibition of international avant-garde artists that never actually took place. Presumably they belonged to Mondrian.”
Mr. Grasskamp quoted the email in a 2016 book, “Das Kunstmuseum” (The Art Museum). Ms. Röder, who has since retired, declined to be interviewed for this article.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No evidence has surfaced of what happened to the Mondrians over the next two decades, or whether the artist ever requested their return before he fled Paris for London in 1938. From there, he traveled to New York where he died in 1944. Ms. Tatzkow says Mondrian never found out what had become of his paintings and believed all his works in German museums had been destroyed.
Advertisement
Abstractions like those created by Mondrian indeed held no power for the Nazis who campaigned against modern art. Two of Mondrian’s works, seized from museums in Hanover and Essen, were shown in the infamous “Degenerate Art” exhibition that opened in Munich in 1937, the year Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi propaganda minister, orchestrated a mass seizure of modern art in all German museums.
The Kaiser Wilhelm Museum, which was founded in 1897 and now focuses on postwar art, was among those that had many pieces confiscated. But the Mondrians are not on any list of the seized works, perhaps Ms. Tatzkow and Mr. Schnabel argue, because, as loans, they were not on any official inventory.
What is clear is that the Mondrians were at the museum by 1950, when the postwar director, Paul Wember, said they had surfaced under what he described as “mysterious circumstances.” Mr. Wember described the discovery in his 1973 book “Kunst in Krefeld” (Art in Krefeld) but did not elaborate.
Four of the eight Mondrians were then sold or bartered by Mr. Wember in the early 1950s to acquire other important works of classical modernism. (The heirs are seeking restitution for all eight of the paintings.)
The four remaining paintings first appeared in the museum’s inventory in 1954 — 10 years after Mondrian’s death.
Krefeld city government says the heirs have no proof that the works were loans. “The pictures in question could also have found their way to the museum as a gift” from the artist, the mayor’s office wrote in an emailed response to questions, “and this is what the city of Krefeld assumes.”
The city, while asserting it has legal title, has argued that in theory any claim by the heirs would be invalid because of statutes of limitation.
Ms. Tatzkow said: “The theory that these were a gift is completely absurd. There is no way that Mondrian would have given eight of his pictures to a museum that had nothing to do with his art at a time when things were going badly for him and he urgently needed to sell. And why wasn’t this so-called gift inventoried?”
Advertisement
Mondrian’s trip to New York in 1940, when London was under bombardment, was arranged by Harry Holtzman, an artist and friend who became his sole heir. Mondrian’s will stipulated that he was bequeathing all of his works to Mr. Holtzman, “wheresoever situated.” Ms. Tatzkow says Mr. Holtzman never knew of the existence of the Krefeld Mondrian paintings.
The McManus Holtzman Irrevocable Trust, set up to manage Mr. Holtzman’s estate and run by his widow and three children, said it became aware of the Krefeld works when Joop Joosten’s catalogue raisonné of Mondrian’s works was published in 1998.
In 2011, the trust approached the museum asking for information on how the paintings came to be in its collection. The heirs say Ms. Röder responded that she could give no more information than what was in the catalog, which reported their path to Krefeld as unknown. She did not mention, they say, the other four paintings that Mr. Wember had sold, which the heirs were unaware of at the time.
The city of Krefeld rejected any suggestion that museum employees have kept the history of the paintings secret. The mayor’s office pointed out that since they were comprehensively restored, the works have been shown at the Tate Liverpool in 2014, at the Martin-Gropius-Bau in Berlin in 2015 and in Utrecht and Herford in 2017.
“Paul Wember and his successors Gerhard Storck and Martin Hentschel carried out extensive research into the unexplained origins of the pictures,” it said in a statement. “The author of the catalogue raisonné was frequently in Krefeld to research and exchange information with the directors.”
It warned that “the defamation of former and current employees of the city of Krefeld will be forcefully repudiated.”
A version of this article appears in print on March 5, 2018, on Page C2 of the New York edition with the headline: Whose Mondrians Are They?.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.