
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reuters
(Reuters) - Highlights from Super Rugby week 11:
REDS 27 LIONS 22
A young Reds side scored four first-half tries and produced a strong defensive effort to script a major upset with victory over the South African-conference leading Lions in Brisbane. 
The Lions had trailled 24-0 at halftime and 27-0 early in the second half before they struck back with two tries to hooker Malcolm Marx to get to 27-12 with 20 minutes remaining.
The errors that had blighted their first-half performance, which led to tries for the Reds to JP Smith, Caleb Timu, Brandon Paenga-Amosa and George Smith, hurt them again in the final quarter as they failed to complete the comeback despite two late tries to replacement Marnus Schoeman. 
READ MORE:
Stormers keep up unbeaten home record
Aso brace gives Hurricanes flattering win
Brumbies' Pocock out of Crusaders clash
Shields still waiting on England decision
Bulls prop Schoeman banned for biting
New Super Rugby, same old Australia
OTHER RUGBY NEWS:
Lions to receive ceremonial caps
Farrell would be 'brilliant' England captain
Winger North returns to Wales
Clarke gets Ospreys head coach role
Springboks great Habana to retire
England's Hartley ruled out of S.Africa tour
Pau's Armitage out for nine months
Thomas shines as Racing reach final
STORMERS 34 REBELS 18
The Stormers kept up their unbeaten home record in this year’s Super Rugby competition with a 34-18 win over the Rebels to lift themselves off the bottom of the South African conference.
JJ Engelbrecht went over for two tries and fellow Springboks Damian de Allende and Dillyn Leyds also scored for the home side with Sefa Naivalu going over twice for the Australians.
The Stormers threatened a runaway score as they dominated early with three unanswered tries before the Rebels staged a comeback and reduced the deficit to nine points in the closing stages.
But a try on the final whistle for Engelbrecht ensured a healthy winning margin for the hosts.
HURRICANES 43 SUNWOLVES 15
Inside centre Vince Aso crossed for four tries but only two of them counted as the Hurricanes moved to the top of the standings following their victory over Japan's Sunwolves.
Aso, who crossed in the 74th and 79th minute, had two tries ruled out earlier by television match official Ben Skeen - the first for a marginal forward pass from Julian Savea and then for a dangerous clear out by Ardie Savea some 70 metres downfield.
Julian Savea, Finlay Christie, Reed Prinsep, Jordie Barrett and Brad Shields also scored for the home side, who moved to 32 points on the table, two ahead of the Lions and three in front of the defending champion Canterbury Crusaders. 
The Hurricanes, who had won their last six games, only put the game beyond doubt in the final six minutes with three tries -- two of which were scored by Aso.
 (Compiled by Greg Stutchbury and Mark Gleeson; Editing by Sudipto Ganguly)
Advertisement