
Advertisement
Supported by
By Ian Parkes
When the Formula One season begins on Sunday, it will be easy to assume that Mercedes, and its driver Lewis Hamilton, will emerge as champions again.
But that theory would dismiss its two main rivals, Ferrari and Red Bull.
After surviving regulation changes last season that altered the aerodynamics of the car and the tires — which was the sport’s attempt, in part, to shake off their hegemony after they won a third consecutive championship in 2016 — Mercedes still made it four in a row in October, clinching the constructors’ crown in Austin, Tex. A week later in Mexico, Hamilton added his third drivers’ title with the team and fourth over all.
But the changes in the cars over the winter were more evolution than revolution, so it is hard to see beyond another Mercedes triumph this year.
A car that was described last year as “a bit of a diva” by Toto Wolff, the Mercedes motor sport boss, because of its temperamental nature in the first half of the season, was eventually tamed. From his home race at the British Grand Prix in July, Hamilton won six of eight races to stifle any challenge.
For Mercedes’ latest racecar, the W09 EQ Power+, Wolff said the issues from last year’s car, the W08, had been addressed. “Sometimes she was a bit difficult to understand, and this is the area where we worked the most, trying to interpret that while preserving what we have in terms of speed in the car, and equally finding more drivability,” he said.
After eight days of testing recently at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya in Spain, little emerged to dislodge Mercedes as the favorite. The car displayed strong reliability and exceptional pace over the long runs. It completed 1,040 laps, the most by any team.
In terms of lap time, Mercedes was only the seventh quickest of the 10 teams, but it opted not to show its hand. As Hamilton pointed out, “We’ve not been on low fuel yet, so I have no idea where the car can go.”
Testing is notoriously difficult to read because teams run different engine modes and fuel levels, the data from which is not made public. They can also use the entire range of tire compounds from the supplier Pirelli. This year, there are seven dry-weather compounds, as opposed to five previously, with the hypersoft and superhard the new additions.
Hamilton, saying he felt “stronger” going into this season, can also say the same about the car. “The car is an improvement on last year,” he said. “Last year’s car felt great; this car feels better.”
Ferrari was quickest over all during testing, with Sebastian Vettel at the wheel and using the fastest tire, the hypersoft. The four-time champion’s lap of 1 minute 17.182 seconds was the fastest at the circuit in its current configuration.
Vettel was dismissive of the time and instead was more enthused by the reliability of his car, the SF71H, which, like Mercedes, did not have a technical issue over the eight days and 929 completed laps.
“The important thing is we know our car is working the way we want, the way we expect,” said Vettel, who finished second to Hamilton in last year’s drivers’ championship. “I think we can still do better, so let’s see whether we get there.”
While the Hamilton-versus-Vettel battle may grab the headlines, Red Bull could be the team that emerges as Mercedes’ closest challenger based on early evidence from testing.
The big question, as last year, is the reliability of the team’s Renault-supplied power unit.
Many issues undermined performance in 2017, in particular for Max Verstappen, because his car had three technical failures in six races in the middle part of the season.
“The target this year is to start the season reliably, which will allow us to make full use of the potential of the engine, something we were not capable of doing last year,” said Cyril Abiteboul, Renault managing director. “Reliability and performance go hand in hand.”
Verstappen at least enjoyed a strong finish, winning races in Malaysia and Mexico, while placing second in Japan.
McLaren will certainly be seeking reliability from Renault as it embarks on a new era this season.
After three years enduring countless technical issues with its engine partner Honda, McLaren severed its agreement with the Japanese manufacturer at the end of last season and switched to Renault for the next three seasons. It is the first time they have collaborated.
Testing, however, did not go as planned. On the first day, a wheel fell off McLaren’s car, the MCL33; on the second day, the exhaust detached after a clip broke, with the wayward hot air melting some wiring.
Other issues, including leaks, hydraulic failures and a turbo problem, plagued testing, until on the final day Fernando Alonso ran the third quickest lap of all the drivers.
While the introduction of the new power unit created problems, Éric Boullier, the racing director, said the team “did not do a good enough job to prepare the car.”
If the “minor issues,” as Boullier put it, can be overcome then the aggressive design and packaging of McLaren’s car will offer it a chance of a more competitive season.
McLaren has long said that its chassis is on a par with Red Bull. Because the two teams now have the same power unit, Zak Brown, the McLaren executive director, knows Red Bull is the benchmark for his team.
“It’s the obvious one everyone is going to point to because there will be no difference in the power unit,” Brown said in an interview. “While we are trying to beat everyone, the engine variable can be removed, and it comes down to drivers, chassis, aero.”
McLaren gets total parity on the power unit with Red Bull, he said. “I know Red Bull has a view on the competitiveness of its engine I don’t necessarily share, but the three engines I feel are all pretty close,” he said, referring to Renault, Mercedes and Ferrari.
Over the winter, McLaren also agreed to allow Alonso to compete in the 24 Hours of Le Mans this year and some rounds of the World Endurance Championship, with Toyota.
As for Honda, it has joined forces with Toro Rosso, which ended its contract with Renault. Its car, the STR13, was reliable in testing, covering 822 laps, third only to Mercedes and Ferrari.
The major challenge for all the power-unit manufacturers this season follows a change in the regulations, which means each driver is allowed to use only three engines, rather than four, over the year.
With 21 races, that’s seven grands prix per power unit, compared with five last season.
“The challenge is similar to previous years,” said Andy Cowell, the managing director of Mercedes AMG High Performance Powertrains. “Over the last 14 to 15 years, we’ve done work to increase the life of the V8s, the V10s and the V6s. This is the same journey.”
Aesthetically, the biggest change is the introduction of the halo, a frontal cockpit protection device, while T-wings and shark-fin engine covers, which aided aerodynamics last year, have been banned.
[READ MORE: At the Australian Grand Prix, a New Era of Protecting Drivers]
Formula One has also dropped its grid girls, who have long been associated with the sport. Liberty Media said the “custom does not resonate with our brand values and clearly is at odds with modern-day societal norms.”
Instead, children, called grid kids, will accompany and stand with the drivers on the grid during the opening ceremony.
The children, some of whom will be competing in karting or junior formula, will be chosen on merit, or by lottery.


Advertisement