

                On Comedy            
By                     
                                    JASON ZINOMAN
                            
                MARCH 7, 2018
    
LOS ANGELES — Early in her career, the comedy writer Nell Scovell sold her first script, an episode of the meta-sitcom “It’s Garry Shandling’s Show,” and then met its star for feedback.
“You write like a guy,” Mr. Shandling told her. She was thrilled.
“At the time, that was the nicest thing you could say to me,” she said wryly last month, perched on her couch near a window in her airy, modern apartment in the Brentwood neighborhood here. Even though she later felt uneasy about the remark, she said, at the same time, getting that kind of validation from one of her favorite comics was an invaluable boost.
Being the rare woman in a comedy writers’ room can inspire complex feelings, a point driven home by her timely new memoir, “Just the Funny Parts … And a Few Hard Truths About Sneaking Into the Hollywood Boys’ Club.” Ms. Scovell, 57, worked on some of the most prestigious comedy institutions in television (“The Simpsons,” “The Muppets,” “Late Night With David Letterman”) and while her behind-the-scenes stories maintain a breezy tone, a darker undercurrent bubbles up.
Ms. Scovell wrote the vast bulk of the book before the #MeToo movement took hold, but it fits with this moment, and not just because she describes incidents of harassment and misconduct and names names. Ms. Scovell, in some ways, anticipated the current reckoning, regularly taking to social media to agitate for change, shaming Hollywood over unequal treatment of women and becoming a one-woman lobby group for female writers in late night. As a veteran of the industry who has worked for years to change it, she brings an unexpected perspective to activism today.
Advertisement
Her writing has a punchy forcefulness, peppering stories with irreverent punch lines and juicy gossip. But in person, she can be more cautious. Despite being a sharp critic of Hollywood, her memoir positions her firmly as a member of it. After attending Harvard and working at Spy magazine, she wrote television scripts and speeches, crafting jokes for everyone from Barack Obama when he was president to Henry Kissinger. “With that accent,” she said of the former secretary of state, “everything is funny.”
Advertisement
Ms. Scovell might be best known as the co-writer of “Lean In,” the feminist manifesto by Facebook’s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg. But if Ms. Scovell’s late career were a screenplay, the inciting incident would have been her 2009 essay, “Letterman and Me,” for VanityFair.com, written after the talk show host confessed on the air to sleeping with multiple staff members and to being blackmailed.
The reaction, Ms. Scovell, said, “was a big shrug.” When the president of the National Organization for Women criticized the host for having workplace affairs, Rob Burnett, the head of his production company, released a statement saying the show was “fair, professional and entirely merit-based.” Reading that, Ms. Scovell writes, “a switch inside me flipped.”
She started examining the numbers, and while she knew female writers were scarce on Mr. Letterman’s shows, she was surprised to find that she was one of only seven women in 27 years. Her essay described the office as a “hostile work environment,” but that was really a jumping-off point to a more prescriptive argument rooted in the stark numbers stacked against women in late night. She contended that shows needed to look beyond their networks of people to make change.
Ms. Scovell was not the first to make this argument, and was inspired by a New Yorker article by Nancy Franklin pointing out that there wasn’t a female writer working for Jay Leno, David Letterman or Conan O’Brien at the time. Ms. Scovell’s essay touched a nerve, perhaps in part because it was from the perspective of someone inside the industry. Jena Friedman, who wrote for “The Late Show” and is currently host of her own show on Adult Swim, “Soft Focus,” said that the essay had a huge impact. “Nell spoke truth to power at a time when her voice was able to be heard thanks to the internet and feminist blogosphere,” she told me.
Ms. Scovell heard from many female writers who read the essay and had stories to tell. She started reaching out, encouraging others to apply for jobs. Then she played matchmaker by contacting executives and head writers. “I tried public shaming,” she said, adding that not much changed apart from a few hires. “So I decided to play the inside game.”
When Jimmy Kimmel took over the 11:30 p.m. time slot on ABC, she wrote a letter to Anne Sweeney, president of the ABC Television Group at the time, about the need for more women in late night, attaching a copy of her Vanity Fair piece. As she recounts in her book, two days later she received a message from Molly McNearney, the head writer for the show (and now Mr. Kimmel’s wife). Ms. Scovell passed along the names of two writers (Bess Kalb, Joelle Boucai), who were hired.
She also suggested female writers to Tim Carvell, a longtime friend who was head writer at “The Daily Show” and became the executive producer of “Last Week Tonight,” the John Oliver program where the original writing staff included two women (Jill Twiss, Juli Weiner) referred by Ms. Scovell. “She made a project of suggesting women when there was an opening for jobs, and has a great eye for talent,” Mr. Carvell said, describing her as a singular figure in late night. “Every time someone is staffing up, I tell them to talk to Nell.”
Advertisement
Since her essay was published, the issue of representation has become much more widely discussed, but Ms. Scovell said of the talk of change resulting from #MeToo: “I have a very pessimistic take. I think women are speaking up because we have nothing left to lose.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
She added that if the David Letterman scandal broke today, she didn’t think it would unfold any differently. When asked if she thought he should have been fired, she paused, considering the question as her cheerful demeanor became slightly more reserved, even wary, before saying she didn’t know. “I want to be very clear,” she added. “I’m not the sex police.”
In 2014, Ms. Scovell wrote jokes for Mr. Letterman when he performed at the Kennedy Center Honors, and she took the opportunity to ask him about her essay and female writers. He brushed it off, saying he never read the article. She sent him a copy of “Lean In” in Finnish and when he responded with a joke, she thought it was hilarious.
“In TV, you look to make characters consistent, but in real life, we’re not consistent,” she said. “Sometimes we’re brave and sometimes we’re not. Sometimes we’re very aggressive and sometimes we back right down.”
More women in show business are telling their stories now, but that doesn’t mean the climate has radically shifted. “The first Emmys I went to was in 1990 when the five nominees for best comedy were ‘Designing Women,’ ‘Golden Girls,’ ‘Murphy Brown,’ ‘Cheers,’ ‘Wonder Years,’” she said. “Three and a half were created by women. That hasn’t happened since. The numbers go up and down. My sense is they’re inching up but I’ll be happy when I see three shows out of five nominated again.”
An earlier version of this article misidentified the event at which David Letterman used jokes written by Nell Scovell. It was the Kennedy Center Honors in 2014, not the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor last year.
A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2018, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: She Speaks Truth to the Funny Men.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »