
Advertisement
Supported by
Chasing the Deal
Spring is the best time to plan a trip to Mexico, and you don’t have to empty your wallet to get there. Here are five great getaways at a variety of price points.
By Shivani Vora
If you’re considering a getaway to Mexico, plan your trip before May to get the most for your money, according to Zachary Rabinor, founder and chief executive of Journey Mexico. 
“Mexico is coming off its peak tourist season, and hotels, tour operators and restaurants lower prices to bring in more business,” Mr. Rabinor said. Besides value, he said that travelers can expect still tolerable temperatures before the heat of summer sets in.  
So whether you’re interested in a sun and sand vacation, a culture-heavy trip or one that includes gastronomy, a spring trip to Mexico is possible without breaking the bank.
Mayan Trail from G Adventures is an 11-day trip that begins in Playa del Carmen and ends with a few days in Guatemala. Travelers get guided tours of the ancient Mayan civilization Chichén Itzá, Mérida, the capital of the Yucatán State, and San Cristobal de Las Casas, known for its colonial architecture. 
Visitors also spend two nights in a jungle lodge inside Palenque National Park, where you can tour Mayan ruins, go on hikes and swim in the Roberto Barrios waterfalls. Packages are available on select dates before May, and include accommodations, guided tours and transfers. Prices start at $1,300 a person. Book online at gadventures.com.
Trafalgar offers an eight-day Treasures of the Yucatán Trip, where guests get guided tours of Izamal, Merida, Campeche and Uxmal and also visit the Celestun Unesco Biosphere Reserve, where you’ll travel by small boats through lagoons and see a colony of pink flamingos. Departure dates close May 9, and the package includes accommodations, tours, hotel tips, airport transfers, daily breakfast and some lunches and dinners. Prices start at $1,595 a person. Book by calling Trafalgar directly at 866-513-1995, or by visiting their website.
For travelers who want a quick urban escape, Intrepid Travel offers a four-day Mexico City Stopover. The package includes accommodations in the heart of Mexico City, two days of guided city tours and a day trip to the Teotihuacan pyramids, followed by lunch in a local family’s home. Prices start at $500 a person, and are available daily through May. Book by calling 800-970-7299. 
Cheap Caribbean offers a three-night beach getaway to Riviera Maya, which includes round-trip flights between Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport and Cancun International Airport, accommodations in a deluxe junior suite at the five-star Valentin Imperial Riviera Maya and all meals and drinks. Prices start at $769 a person., and are valid for travel before May 31. Book by calling 800-786-0435 or online at Cheap Caribbean.
Luxury seekers can consider a weeklong private trip from Mr. Rabinor’s company, Journey Mexico, to Mexico City, Puebla and Oaxaca. It includes five-star accommodations, transportation and guides, some meals and drinks  and sightseeing tours. Visitors enjoy a food tour and an after-hours tour of the Anthropology Museum in Mexico City, a guided tour of the Teotihuacan pyramids, a food tour and walking tour in Puebla, a walking tour and cooking class in Oaxaca and a tour of Monte Alban, a pre-Columbian archaeological site. Packages are available through May and start at $2,400 a person. Book by calling 800-513-1587 or emailing info@journeymexico.com. 
Advertisement