
By MARK A. WALSHMAY 1, 2018

LONDON — When two huge brands decide to merge, the focus is usually on whether prices will go up and whether workers will lose jobs.
That was the case this week when two major chains in Britain, Sainsbury’s and Asda, said they were planning to join forces, potentially creating the country’s biggest supermarket operator. The companies did the usual dance: Groceries would be cheaper, stores would stay open, employees would keep their jobs.

            This deal will offer more opportunities for over 330,000 colleagues at all levels within the enlarged group, drawing on the shared values and heritage of both businesses. We don't plan to close any Sainsbury's or Asda stores as a result of the combination pic.twitter.com/kp4PYnezbM        
Then Mike Coupe, the chief executive of J Sainsbury, began to sing.
Waiting to be interviewed for the British channel ITV News, Mr. Coupe, presumably unaware that the cameras were rolling, undercut the official line with an impromptu performance.
“We’re in the money,” he crooned. “The sky is sunny. Let’s lend it, spend it, send it rolling along.”
Advertisement
Intoning lines from a piece called “The Gold Diggers’ Song (We’re in the Money)” was probably not the best way to assuage concerns that shareholders might be making hay on the back of higher prices and job cuts. The song was first written for a 1933 film, but is perhaps most famously used in the musical “42nd Street.”
Advertisement
The reaction on Twitter was predictably acerbic.

            This is atrocious. Who exactly does he think will be in the money? My guess is himself and the shareholders while the staff and customers will pay the price        

            This ITV clip is gold. The Sainsburys/Asda merger, which unions fear could lead to job cuts or loss of pay for workers, saw Sainsbury’s shares soar. Sainsbury’s CEO caught on camera singing ‘we’re in the money’. Instil confidence workers will be a priority? But that apology... pic.twitter.com/oX5TbbuQRK        
Mr. Coupe quickly apologized. “This was an unguarded moment trying to compose myself before a TV interview,” he said. “It was an unfortunate choice of song, from the musical ‘42nd Street’ which I saw last year, and I apologize if I have offended anyone.”

            If I’ve said it once, I’ve said it a thousand times. If you don’t have a ‘what to do when your CEO sings “We’re in the Money” while mic’d on merger day’ statement ready come the announcement, your PR crisis plan is useless.pic.twitter.com/peDCvpm2a8        
Some found it harder to see the lighter side. The GMB union, which represents workers in the retail sector, expressed indignation.
“What on earth will Asda workers who are worrying about their futures think when they see this?” the union said in a statement on Twitter. “It’s not only crass, it’s completely unprofessional and utterly insensitive.”
Follow Mark A. Walsh on Twitter: @mawalsh40.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.