
By ANNA DUBENKOJAN. 4, 2018

The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for political writing from the right and left that you might not have seen.
Has this series exposed you to new ideas? Tell us how. Email us at ourpicks@nytimes.com.
For an archive of all the Partisan Writing Roundups, check out Our Picks.
Raheem Kassam as reported by Oliver JJ Lane in Breitbart:
“If you look at what Steve Bannon is doing, if you look at Breitbart News, it is the only news site in the world which truly endorses the MAGA agenda, and it doesn’t need to be ‘either/or.’”
Mr. Kassam, the London editor for Breitbart News, defended his boss’s harsh words in Michael Wolff’s new book “Fire and Fury.” The former White House chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon, he explains, understands what a geopolitical threat Russia is, “so when he remarks that these people probably shouldn’t have been in Trump Tower taking meetings with senior campaign staff without lawyers in the room, I think that’s a fair thing to say.” However, supporters of President Trump do not need to choose between him and Mr. Bannon, he says, adding “we’re not on different sides, here.” Read more »
_____
David French in National Review:
“Today represents a perfect example of addition by subtraction. Trump did well in rejecting Bannon.”
While some at Breitbart and even Mr. Bannon himself wanted to play down the rift between him and Mr. Trump, Mr. French at National Review reveled in the new split. He says that he is hopeful that with Mr. Bannon on the outs, the administration will reject its “incoherent, destructive nationalist-populist ideology.” Moreover, Mr. French says he hopes that with figures like Mr. Bannon out of the way, there will be “space for better men and women to rise.” Read more »
Advertisement
_____
W. James Antle III in The Washington Examiner:
“Trump’s estrangement from the people who would put policy meat on his populist bones, figures like Bannon and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, is bad news for those who wanted ‘Trumpism’ to be more than a barroom diatribe about Chinese depredations and American decline.”
Mr. Antle points out that those who wished to imbue this administration with a set of nationalist ideals, people like the writers Ann Coulter and Julius Krein, have cooled on the president and pushed him into the arms of the “dreaded Republican establishment.” The split with Mr. Bannon only proves that the adage “Let Trump be Trump” still holds true and that “letting someone else be Trump will not work.” Read more »
Advertisement
_____
John Cassidy in The New Yorker:
“The overall portrait that Wolff draws of a dysfunctional, bitterly divided White House in the first six months of Trump’s presidency, before the appointment of John Kelly as chief of staff and the subsequent firing of Bannon, has the whiff of authenticity about it — and it echoes news coverage at the time.”
Some of the reactions to Mr. Wolff’s book have been skeptical of his sourcing. For Mr. Cassidy, even if some of the anecdotes are “impossible to confirm but damning if true,” the larger sense one gets from the book is accurate.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Read more »
_____
David A. Graham in The Atlantic:
“Trump is unlikely to sue, and if he does sue, he is unlikely to win.”
In response to the excerpts from Mr. Wolff’s book, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have sent a cease-and-desist letter to Mr. Bannon as well as a letter to the author and his publisher asking for an apology and a halt to the release of the book. Mr. Graham explains why such letters are foolish and work only to promote their targets. It is also difficult to win a libel suit against a publisher, he says. Moreover, Mr. Trump may not want to initiate a lawsuit that “would open himself up to defense lawyers poring through all sorts of information he probably doesn’t want made public.” Read more »
_____
David Faris in The Week:
“For all the juicy tidbits in yesterday’s news about a White House in total disarray and a president who is regarded by even his inner circle as unfit, the Trump-Bannon spat is unlikely to have a major impact on the trajectory of this administration.”
Wednesday’s statement from the president about Mr. Bannon led a number of pundits to speculate who the winners and losers were in this latest episode of palace intrigue from the administration. According to Mr. Faris, none of that really matters. What does matter, though, is that “none of us will have a moment’s peace until they are as far away from the White House as possible.” Read more »
_____
Aaron Blake in The Washington Post:
“In some ways, this is the tell-all that Trump’s post-truth presidency deserves.”
To Mr. Blake, “Fire and Fury” is almost unbelievable. “Some of it, literally so.” He points out some inconsistencies in the book, including an anecdote purporting that Mr. Trump did not know who John Boehner, the former House speaker and the president’s occasional golf companion, was. He takes Mr. Wolff to task for using “some of the most gossiped-about aspects of the Trump White House and put them forward as fact — often plainly stated fact without even anonymous sources cited.” Read more »
_____
James Warren in Poynter: 
“Donald Trump and Michael Wolff deserve one another. They’re like conjoined twins tied at the ego.”
Mr. Warren introduces his readers to Mr. Wolff, the chronicler whom he says Mr. Trump seemingly “deserves.” The book, Mr. Warren writes, is “pure Wolff. Provocative, discomfiting and a bit ambiguous.” Like the president, Mr. Wolff “cherishes the limelight and proximity to the rich and famous, even as he occasionally derided them with acidic and snarky prose.” And it should come as no surprise to the people in the Trump White House who spoke to Mr. Wolff for his book that he “stuck a shiv in them.” Read more »
_____
Mike Allen in Axios: 
“For all their grenades over Michael Wolff’s bombshell book, Steve Bannon and President Trump have something stunning in common: Each helped create a monster he can’t control.”
Mr. Allen uses the occasion of Mr. Wolff’s book to draw comparisons between Mr. Bannon and Mr. Trump. “They both have grandiose views of themselves, play to the base instincts of voters and obsess about reporters — and regularly feed them on the sly,” he writes. Read more »
_____
Want the Partisan Writing Roundup in your inbox? Sign up for the Morning Briefing Newsletter or the What We’re Reading Newsletter.
Have thoughts about this collection? Email feedback to ourpicks@nytimes.com.
Follow Anna Dubenko on Twitter: @AnnaDubenko.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »