
Advertisement
Supported by
By Hilarie M. Sheets
Laurie M. Tisch’s apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan has spectacular views of Central Park. Reflecting her passions and role as a trustee at the Whitney Museum of American Art, it is filled with classic paintings by the country’s renowned modernists, including Edward Hopper, Milton Avery, Jacob Lawrence, Thomas Hart Benton and Georgia O’Keeffe (with a radiant new acquisition of her “Blue Morning Glories”).
Yet what often captures the attention of visitors, Ms. Tisch said with amusement, as she gave a recent tour of her home, are her trophies from the New York Giants’ Super Bowl XLII and XLVI victories.
“Those were two very close games against the Patriots, where New York basically had no business winning,” said Ms. Tisch, whose father, Preston Robert Tisch, bought half the team in 1991. Now Ms. Tisch has inherited his stake in the Giants, together with her brothers, since the passing of their mother, Joan Tisch, at age 90 in November.
“I grew up with six boys — two brothers and four male cousins — not the easiest thing being the only female,” said Ms. Tisch, as she pointed to Jenny Holzer’s marble bench in the foyer, carved with the artist’s “truism”: “Men don’t protect you anymore.” While some of those Tisch men now run Loews Corporation, passed on from her father and uncle, who started in business by buying and revamping hotels, Ms. Tisch has followed in her parents’ philanthropic footsteps with the Laurie M. Tisch Illumination Fund.
“My mother brought so much money and attention to the Gay Men’s Health Crisis,” said Ms. Tisch. “My father started Take the Field, which rebuilt 43 sports fields in New York City schools. I had good role models.”
Ms. Tisch has made her own mark in arts education, first in the 1980s by helping build a small program begun in a firehouse into the Children’s Museum of Manhattan. Starting in the late 1990s, she steered the Center for Arts Education, helping restore art programs that had been cut from New York City public schools. Simultaneously she joined the board of the Whitney Museum as she began collecting 20th-century American art. The following are edited excerpts from our conversation.
Has working with the Whitney helped develop your collecting tastes and knowledge?
Absolutely. [The curator] Barbara Haskell guided me. She’s one of the world’s great experts in the field of American modernism. It was what I was drawn to aesthetically. She and I started the American Fellows [in 1999], a patron’s group that meets several times a year.
What was an important early personal acquisition?
The Hopper painting. It’s called “Hodgkin’s House.” I was really nervous about it. It was at the time certainly the most expensive thing by far I had ever bought. It belonged to David Geffen. It’s one of the things that’s skyrocketed in value. There are just so few in private hands.
Do you consider yourself an avid collector?
Collecting is a part of me that I’m really lucky I can do, and I love looking at the art. But it’s not the most important thing that I do. I never understand at an auction when something goes for $100 million and everybody starts clapping. I always think, Did they also cure cancer? Or did they just buy a painting?
Do you ever buy at auction?
Three or four things. A few years ago, I was on the phone with a top auctioneer bidding on this beautiful Georgia O’Keeffe white flower. He said, “I can’t tell you who you’re bidding against, but you probably don’t want to stay on the phone much longer.” That was good advice. It went for $45 million. A year later, I found out the two bidders were Paul Allen and Alice Walton!
What’s going on in this Richard Artschwager painting? Is the building collapsing?
This was the Traymore Hotel in Atlantic City. [In 1972, it was imploded.] There are four or five paintings Artschwager did of this, from newspaper articles. One is owned by one of my brothers, and one is owned by one of my cousins. My father and uncle bought the Traymore in the 1950s, and we moved to Atlantic City for a while. It’s where the Miss America pageant took place. My father was a judge.
There definitely seems to be a New York theme to a lot of the works here, in cityscapes by John Marin, Charles Sheeler and Joseph Stella.
I like the Brooklyn Bridge. And winter scenes, like this William Glackens of the park. The George Washington Bridge is by Margaret Bourke-White; the Flatiron is by Berenice Abbott. I love the city. More than 80 percent of my foundation’s resources go to greater New York, leveling the playing field to the extent that I can. The first thing we did were those fruit and vegetable stands in all five boroughs, where there was little access to healthy foods. We’re starting a new arts initiative, with geriatrics and Alzheimer’s, and looking into programs with prison reform and PTSD. It’s using the arts almost as a healing tool.
Advertisement