
By CORAL DAVENPORTJAN. 8, 2018

WASHINGTON — Tom Steyer, the billionaire environmentalist and Democratic political donor, announced Monday that his advocacy group, NextGen America, will spend $30 million to help Democrats retake the House in 2018, with the aim of eventually impeaching President Trump.
Mr. Steyer also announced that he would not run for Senate or governor in California, as had been speculated.
Mr. Steyer, who was a major donor to President Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign, emerged as the largest single political donor of the 2014 midterm election. His group spent $74 million to back Democrats that year, and $87 million in the 2016 elections.
But most of the candidates he backed in those elections  lost. This time, he said, his strategy will shift. Rather than focusing on climate change as an issue to rally young voters, as he had tried since 2010, he will focus on whatever issues will help Democrats win a majority in the House — in order to impeach Mr. Trump.
Advertisement
“We are really focused on removing this president,” Mr. Steyer said.
Last fall, Mr. Steyer’s group began a television and media campaign calling for  impeachment. At a news conference here Monday, he made clear that the advertising, largely on cable news channels, that has featured his own call for impeachment is only the beginning.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
“I am willing to do whatever it takes to help save our country. I feel the most important task for me is organizing,” he said, adding: “A year ago, no one knew what a Donald Trump presidency would look like, or how he would behave. We now know that the Oval Office cannot reshape a man who does not believe in constitutional democracy.”
Advertisement
Allies of the president, both in and outside the White House, dismiss such talk as the hyperbolic rantings of Democrats who still cannot accept Mr. Trump’s 2016 victory and continue to try to discredit his presidency.
But Mr. Steyer said he was serious and organized. NextGen America will focus on backing Democratic candidates in House, Senate and governor’s races in Florida, Virginia, Wisconsin, Michigan, Nevada, California, Pennsylvania, Iowa, New Hampshire and Arizona.
Mr. Steyer said his campaign would focus on reaching millennial voters, who will constitute the largest voting demographic in the 2018 and 2020 elections.
“Young people are overwhelmingly progressive, and energized like never before,” Mr. Steyer said. “They are now the largest bloc of eligible voters in America, capable of swinging elections on their own, and they are horrified by what’s happening here in Washington.”
In addition to the electoral campaigns, Mr. Steyer said his group would push all members of the House to back impeachment, starting with an effort to have constituents deliver copies of “Fire and Fury,” Michael Wolff’s new behind-the-scenes book about the Trump White House, to their representatives.
Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 2018, on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Adversary to Spend $30 Million on ’18 Election.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »