

                What You Get            
By                     
                                    JULIE LASKY
                            
                JAN. 10, 2018
    

            CreditBob Fuller        
WHAT A gabled 1910 house with a double-decker front porch, three bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms
HOW MUCH $249,900
SIZE 1,760 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $142
SETTING This home is near the Ohio City neighborhood of Cleveland, about 15 minutes from downtown and not far from parks, bars, restaurants, gyms and rapid transit.
INDOORS A thorough renovation project that was completed last year modernized the interior while preserving some architectural details, like built-in seating and cabinetry. The main level has an open floor plan, with the living room — which has a bay window and brick fireplace with a gas insert and flanking bookshelves — flowing into a kitchen with steel appliances and granite counters. Opposite the kitchen, the dining area retains its original dark-wood bench and glass-paned cabinets. A salvaged door slides on wheels along a metal track at the entrance to the powder room. Engineered hardwood floors and recessed lighting are found throughout this level.
Upstairs, a master suite has access to the upper porch. The master bathroom has a pair of glass basin sinks. Two additional bedrooms and a bathroom are on this floor; one of the bedrooms opens onto a sun porch with a vaulted wood ceiling.
Advertisement
OUTDOOR SPACE A detached two-car garage reached by a paved driveway was recently added to the .09-acre property.
Advertisement
TAXES $2,383
CONTACT Joe Vaccaro, the Vaccaro Team, 216-650-8188; howardhanna.com
•
WHAT A 1915 hipped-roof frame house with three bedrooms, two full bathrooms and two half bathrooms
HOW MUCH $249,500
SIZE 2,136 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $117
SETTING The property is on a tree-lined street filled with vintage homes, on the southeast side of Cedar Rapids, several blocks from Bever Park, which has a public swimming pool and a children’s zoo with farm animals.
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
INDOORS The home was extensively renovated between 2009 and 2012, and its original oak floors and trim have been restored. The living room has a wood-burning fireplace with a slate-tile surround and a bar built into a cabinet next to it. An adjacent sun porch is currently used as a home office. The oak-beamed dining room has built-in china cabinets and a set of French doors leading to a screened wraparound porch. The new kitchen has heated floors, a breakfast bar with storage and a recently added powder room. A second half bathroom is in the basement.
Upstairs, a sleeping porch off a bedroom was converted into a sitting room and bathroom to create a master suite. The sitting room has a gas fireplace. Two additional bedrooms on this floor share a bathroom with a combined tub and shower.
OUTDOOR SPACE The 50-by-140-foot lot includes a professionally landscaped backyard and a stained-concrete patio. A detached two-car garage has access from two sides and includes a raised area inside that could be used for potting plants.
TAXES $3,522
CONTACT Roy Nowers, Skogman Realty, 319-350-4042; skogman.com
 •
WHAT A cottage built in 1930, with two bedrooms and two bathrooms
HOW MUCH $221,500
SIZE 1,150 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $193
SETTING About 15 minutes northwest of downtown Little Rock, the home is in a neighborhood of small vintage houses that is becoming increasingly popular, especially with investors. Some nearby houses have been razed and are being replaced with large, expensive houses.
Advertisement
INDOORS The home was gutted and completely remodeled in the last year, with new wiring and plumbing. The floors were redone, the windows replaced and the kitchen and both bathrooms updated. The front porch gable was rebuilt in a period style.
The single-story house includes a living-and-dining area, a kitchen that leads to a sun porch, a master bedroom with an en-suite bathroom and a guest room with another en-suite bathroom. A wall of windows in the master bedroom overlooks the backyard.
OUTDOOR SPACE The pillared front porch is wide enough for a swing. The backyard is enclosed by a new wooden fence and trellis.
TAXES $2,301
CONTACT Carol Jenkins, Adkins, McNeill, Smith & Associates, 501-960-6040; littlerockishome.com
An earlier version of this article misidentified Ohio City. It is a neighborhood in Cleveland, not a suburb.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page RE9 of the New York edition.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »