
By HILARIE M. SHEETSJAN. 11, 2018

Virginia Commonwealth University, poised to open its new Institute of Contemporary Art in Richmond on April 21, announced on Thursday that its inaugural director, Lisa Freiman, has stepped down, effective immediately.
Since 2013, Ms. Freiman has steered the vision for the city’s first institution dedicated to contemporary art. She has completed a $37 million capital campaign and overseen construction of its angular glass-and-zinc-clad building, designed by Steven Holl Architects, in a city — the former capitol of the confederacy — known for its historic red-brick architecture and monuments.
In a news release by the university, Ms. Freiman said, “I would like to turn my attention to some projects that I had to put on hold,” including a monograph on the sculptor Claes Oldenburg. She will remain a tenured faculty member of the V.C.U. School of Arts. The provost and vice president for academic affairs at V.C.U., Gail Hackett, said: “We especially appreciate how Lisa advanced the university’s commitment to diversity and inclusion in the arts and worked to integrate the strategic goals of the university into the I.C.A.”
Both Ms. Freiman and the university declined to comment further.
Ms. Freiman came to I.C.A. from the Indianapolis Museum of Art, where she had been a senior curator and chair of the contemporary art department. In a 2016 interview, Ms. Freiman said she hoped “the I.C.A. can become a forum for sometimes difficult conversations, using art as a catalyst for broader discussions about the state of our country and about the world.”
Following the 2016 presidential election, Ms. Freiman and her chief curator, Stephanie Smith, scrapped the original plans for the inaugural exhibition at I.C.A. and began co-organizing “Declaration,” with works by more than 30 artists who do not shy away from social and political issues of the moment. The international roster includes the transgender performance artist Cassils and the artist Paul Rucker, who will present a collection of Ku Klux Klan robes made in a range of materials, from flamboyant red satin to African Kente cloth, shown alongside a collection of historical artifacts related to slavery.
Ms. Smith will continue to oversee “Declaration.” An interim director will be announced shortly while the university searches for a new director.
A version of this article appears in print on January 15, 2018, on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: Upheaval at Arts Center Opening in Virginia.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.