
Advertisement
Supported by
By Joshua Barone
Aaron Mattocks, a Bessie Award-nominated dancer and producer who has worked with the Mark Morris Dance Group and Big Dance Theater, will be the Joyce Theater’s next director of programming, the organization announced on Thursday.
Mr. Mattocks will start on Feb. 1 and succeeds Martin Wechsler, who led the theater’s programming for 22 years before stepping down at the end of last year.
“After an extensive search that produced several wonderfully talented candidates, I am extremely confident that we have identified the best person for the position,” Linda Shelton, the Joyce’s executive director, said in a statement. “Aaron’s multilayered background as a dancer, artist and administrator is sure to enhance our programming on many levels.”
Mr. Mattocks is the executive director of Big Dance Theater, the troupe led by the artistic directors Annie-B Parson and Paul Lazar. He has also worked with Ms. Parson on her choreography for the film “Ricki and the Flash,” starring Meryl Streep. He is the producing director for Pam Tanowitz and, from 2002 to 2010, was the company and general manager of Mark Morris Dance Group.
His most recent project with Ms. Tanowitz was last fall: He produced “New Work for Goldberg Variations,” a collaboration with the pianist Simone Dinnerstein. (Read more about the piece, and see what our critic thought of it.)
In a statement, Mr. Mattocks said that programming at the Joyce “represents a delicate and intricate challenge of balancing excellence, accessibility, diversity of aesthetic voices, innovation and the global breadth of creativity, constantly striving to find a potent mixture of local, national and international artists of distinction across contemporary, popular and traditional forms.”
He added, “I look forward to working with Linda and the Joyce team to continue to foster the meaning, value, context and, increasingly, new audiences for these kinds of artists and their work to thrive.”
Mr. Wechsler, who had a 32-year career at the Joyce and began as an administrative assistant, announced last July that he would step down at the end of 2017.
“I’ve had the privilege and responsibility of providing emerging choreographers with their first residencies at Joyce SoHo; grown up alongside artists like Stephen Petronio and David Parsons; worked with masters like Trisha Brown, Merce Cunningham and Twyla Tharp,” he said in a statement at the time, adding that he would get back to work after “a restful break.”
Follow Joshua Barone on Twitter: @joshbarone



Advertisement