
Advertisement
Supported by
Mini-Vows
By Charanna Alexander
Meghan McDermott and Williams Rossa Cole were married Jan. 13 at Housing Works Bookstore in New York. Erling Hope, a minister with American Marriage Ministries, officiated.
The bride, 47, works in New York, where she directs learning strategy at the Mozilla Foundation, the nonprofit technology group based in Mountain View, Calif. She graduated from Barnard College and received a master’s degree in education from Harvard.
She is a daughter of Katherine Blackburn of New York and Ray McDermott of Palo Alto, Calif. The bride’s father is a professor of anthropology at Stanford. Her mother, who is retired, was the senior director of clinical information systems for the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation. The bride is a stepdaughter of Peter Blackburn and Shelley Goldman.
The groom, 49, is a documentary film producer in New York. He directed and produced “Rebel Rossa” (2016), a look life and legacy of his grandfather, the Irish rebel Jeremiah O’Donovan Rossa. He also was a co-director of “Barney’s Wall” (2017), a portrait of the American book publisher Barney Rosset. The groom graduated from Columbia and received a master’s degree in media and communications from the London School of Economics and Political Science as a Fulbright scholar.
He is a son of Galen Williams of East Hampton, N.Y., and the late William R. Cole, who lived in New York. The groom’s mother is the founder of Poets & Writers, a nonprofit in New York that assists writers with workshops, funding and networking. She is also a garden designer and owner of Galen Williams Landscaping in East Hampton. His father was an editor, author and anthologist of poetry and children’s books, including “Beastly Boys and Ghastly Girls.”
The couple met in 1992 in a mass media and American democracy class at Barnard. They became fast friends, and although Mr. Cole had a girlfriend at the time who lived in Japan, he and Ms. McDermott would often meet for coffee.
Mr. Cole’s relationship with his then-girlfriend ended and after months of meeting over coffee, the two friends had their first official date. “It was the first time we spent time together outside of getting coffee,” said Ms. McDermott, who had accompanied Mr. Cole to a mutual friend’s birthday party. “We had spent so much time together that night that it was really clear that we wanted to be together.”
That moment led to a 25-year courtship deeply rooted in friendship, love and their shared interest in social issues. Along the way, neither pressuring the other to marry, they welcomed two children, Atticus, 12, and Cleopatra, 7.
“Williams and I really like to see what happens next. We don’t set boundaries,” Ms. McDermott said. “We’ve always wanted to see what was possible and that’s given us a sense of weightlessness.”
Both of their parents supported their relationship and didn’t pressure them about marriage even after they had children. “Marriage was never as important as what the quality of what the day brought,” Ms. McDermott said.
After 25 years together they decided that getting married now “just felt right.” “Something about the milestone of 25 felt even more significant against the political turmoil of 2017,” Mr. Cole said. “Doing something joyous together feels like an act of resistance, to celebrate as part of a larger community.”
Their wedding will include the traditional formalities of a processional and wedding vows, but will look more like an anniversary party. “It was more of an excuse to have a really big party with all the people that we love,” Ms. McDermott said. “This was an opportunity to find something true to celebrate.”
Although they don’t anticipate much changing about their relationship after marriage Mr. Cole is excited about a title change for his longtime partner. “I can call her ‘my lovely wife’ now without feeling in the back of my head that I’m misrepresenting,” he said.
Advertisement