
JAN. 14, 2018

Kate Whitman Aufses and Dr. Justin Hunter Oldfield were married Jan. 13 in New York. Rabbi Ari S. Lorge officiated at the Rainbow Room.
The bride, 31, is an associate with the New York law firm Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann. She graduated magna cum laude from Kenyon College, and received two master's degrees, in American literature and art history, from Cambridge University. She received a law degree from University of Michigan.
She is the daughter of Robin Dissin Aufses and Arthur H. Aufses III of New York. The bride's father is a litigation partner in the New York law firm Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel. He is the president of the board of Hudson Guild, a settlement house focused on serving the Chelsea community in New York. The bride's mother is the director of English studies in New York at Lycée Français de New York, and a co-author of three textbooks, “The Language of Composition,” “Literature & Composition” and “Conversations in American Literature” (Bedford Freeman & Worth Publishing).
The groom, also 31, is a primary care physician at the One Medical Group, a practice in New York. He graduated cum laude from Tufts, from which he also received a medical degree.
He is the son of Lois T. Lipman of Stoughton, Mass., and the late John D. Oldfield. The groom’s mother retired as an oncology nurse from Boston Medical Center in Boston. His father worked in Boston where he managed several auto-parts warehouses in northern Massachusetts.
The couple met briefly in 2008 at a New Year’s Eve party given by mutual friends in New York. They were reconnected by those same friends in spring 2014 after Dr. Oldfield was matched for his residency at the University of Michigan, where Ms. Aufses was going to law school.
A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2018, on Page ST12 of the New York edition with the headline: Kate Aufses,  Justin Oldfield.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.