
By MICHAEL D. SHEARJAN. 14, 2018

PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump on Sunday morning ratcheted up a dispute with The Wall Street Journal, accusing the newspaper of purposely misquoting him as saying in an interview that he has a good relationship with the leader of North Korea.
In two tweets from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., the president applied a familiar denigrating term — “fake news” — to a Journal report on Thursday that said Mr. Trump had boasted during an interview: “I probably have a very good relationship with Kim Jong-un. I have relationships with people. I think you people are surprised.”
Mr. Trump insisted that he had actually started his sentence with the contraction “I’d,” not “I,” which would change the meaning from a surprising boast of an existing relationship into a prediction that he could have a good relationship with the dictator if he wanted it.

            The Wall Street Journal stated falsely that I said to them “I have a good relationship with Kim Jong Un” (of N. Korea). Obviously I didn’t say that. I said “I’d have a good relationship with Kim Jong Un,” a big difference. Fortunately we now record conversations with reporters...        

            ...and they knew exactly what I said and meant. They just wanted a story. FAKE NEWS!        
Mr. Trump’s attack came hours after Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, posted on Twitter what she called the “official audio showing WSJ misquoting @POTUS.” She also posted an image with the words “FAKE NEWS” in a bright red banner and saying: “THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. FAKE NEWS IS AT IT AGAIN. FALSELY QUOTING PRESIDENT TRUMP.”

            Here is the official audio showing WSJ misquoting @POTUS pic.twitter.com/wVwoafYkHg        

            pic.twitter.com/u9MHhxkOt0        
Later on Sunday, Ms. Sanders wrote on Twitter that the White House had first requested a correction from The Journal on Friday morning, the day after the interview.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Advertisement
The Journal responded to the president’s accusations by posting its own audio recording and a statement standing by its understanding of what he had said. “We have reviewed the audio from our interview with President Trump, as well as the transcript provided by an external service, and stand by what we reported,” the statement said.

            We have reviewed the audio from our interview with President Trump, as well as the transcript provided by an external service, and stand by what we reported. Here is audio of the portion the White House disputes. https://t.co/eWcmiHrXJg pic.twitter.com/bx9fGFWaPw        
It is difficult to tell from the two audio clips whether the president’s complaint has merit.
It is also unclear what Mr. Trump meant by saying that the White House records “conversations with reporters.” It is standard for White House communications staff members to make audio recordings of interviews with the president, though they do not publicly release a transcript of the interview.
Advertisement
Such sessions are usually also taped by the news organization for the purpose of getting accurate quotations and creating an accurate transcript.
The Journal has not been targeted as often as other news organizations by the president’s “fake news” campaign against coverage that he does not like. He recently promised that he would issue “fake news awards” to news organizations.
On Jan. 2, Mr. Trump tweeted that he would announce “THE MOST DISHONEST & CORRUPT MEDIA AWARDS OF THE YEAR” within days, adding: “Subjects will cover Dishonesty & Bad Reporting in various categories from the Fake News Media. Stay tuned!”
A few days later, Mr. Trump delayed what he called the “Fake News Awards,” saying that awards for “the most corrupt & biased of the Mainstream Media” would be announced on Wednesday. The White House did not explain the delay, and officials would not say whether Mr. Trump would announce his awards on Twitter or in another venue.

            The Fake News Awards, those going to the most corrupt & biased of the Mainstream Media, will be presented to the losers on Wednesday, January 17th, rather than this coming Monday. The interest in, and importance of, these awards is far greater than anyone could have anticipated!        
Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on January 15, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Fires New Salvos In Quotation Squabble.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »