

                International Real Estate            
By                     
                                    KEVIN BRASS
                            
                JAN. 17, 2018
    

            CreditAndreas Meichsner for The New York Times        
A SIX-BEDROOM HOUSE IN THE COUNTRYSIDE
 $1.2 MILLION (980,000 EUROS)
This two-story house is on a hillside in the village of Gross Denkte, about 10 miles south of Brunswick, Germany, and about 40 miles southeast of Hanover. The 3,444-square-foot home, which has six bedrooms and four bathrooms, is on about an acre, with broad views of the surrounding woods and fields.
The house was designed and built in 1998 by the owner, said Rainer von Stosch-Diebitsch, an agent with Engel & Voelkers Braunschweig, which has the listing. On one side is an attached round stone tower with a conical roof.
The living room, kitchen and dining room are on the ground floor, as is the master bedroom, which has an en-suite bathroom and a walk-in closet. The living room has heated wood floors, a wood-burning stove and access to a large terrace overlooking the hillside.
Modern appliances, including a new stove and dishwasher, were added to the kitchen a year ago, Mr. von Stosch-Diebitsch said. It has granite countertops, including one used for casual dining. The dining room is on the first floor of the tower.
Advertisement
A spiral staircase leads to the second floor, which has a living room with a balcony and three bedrooms. There is an additional bedroom in the tower that is being used as a study. There is also a private one-bedroom apartment on this floor, reached by stairs from a separate entrance on the ground floor; the 656-square-foot apartment has a kitchen, a bathroom and a living room.
Advertisement
Below the ground floor, on the basement level, is an indoor pool and sauna. A space off the pool area with a bar and a fireplace is described as a party room; it has access to a small outdoor terrace. The house also has an attic and a four-car garage.
This property is in the state of Lower Saxony, which is popular with hikers and cyclists. Gross Denkte is a village of about 1,800 people with a market, a gas station and a pharmacy, Mr. von Stosch-Diebitsch said. There are schools and restaurants about three miles away, in the town of Wolfenbüttel, known for its timber homes and a castle dating to the 13th century. The nearest international airport is in Hanover, about an hour’s drive.
MARKET OVERVIEW
The largest price increases in Germany have historically been in big cities like Berlin, Munich and Hamburg, according to government data. But since 2012, home prices across the country have increased by more than 30 percent, according to an index tracked by the Association of German Pfandbrief Banks. In the third quarter of 2017, the index price for residential property was up 7.8 percent, compared with the same period a year earlier, the report said.
Homeownership has traditionally been less common in Germany than in other European Union countries, agents said, and many buyers are now purchasing a home for the first time, thanks to higher incomes and low interest rates.
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are signs, however, that the real estate market in Germany is starting to slow, said Michael Voigtländer, an analyst with the Cologne Institute for Economic Research. After years of rising prices, he said, “down payments as well as transaction costs” make buying a home impossible for many households.
In Lower Saxony, prices are still increasing, but “on a lower scale” than in other states, he said, and Hanover is “lagging behind other big cities.”
In the Brunswick area, prices also continue to rise, said Anita Gärtner, managing partner of Berlin Sotheby’s International Realty. “Although the housing prices aren’t as high as Hamburg or Munich,” she noted, “they have grown almost 10 percent in the last year alone.” Siemens, Volkswagen and other large companies own manufacturing facilities in Brunswick, she said, which helps drive home sales in the area.
Advertisement
The lack of inventory in this part of the country is the biggest problem, Mr. von Stosch-Diebitsch said: “We could sell 10 times more real estate if more properties were available. The new building cannot nearly meet the demand.”
WHO BUYS IN LOWER SAXONY
Most buyers are locals moving to a larger home or buying for the first time, agents said, and international buyers are rare.
BUYING BASICS
Purchasing a home in Germany is a “relatively easy process with few hoops to jump through,” Ms. Gärtner said. There are no restrictions on foreign buyers. Mortgages are available, but usually require a down payment of 20 to 40 percent, agents said.
A notary certifies the transaction and records it. Many foreign buyers choose to hire a lawyer, but it is not required, agents said.
WEBSITES
Official Germany tourism site: germany.travel/en/index.html
Hanover tourism: hannover.de/en
Brunswick information: braunschweig.de/english/
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCIES
German; euro (1 euro = $1.22)
TAXES AND FEES
Buyers can expect to pay a transfer tax of 5 percent of the purchase price, as well as 1 to 1.5 percent of the price for the notary fee. Agent fees can add another 5.95 percent.
The annual tax on this property is about 2,300 euros (or $2,800), Mr. von Stosch-Diebitsch said.
CONTACT
Rainer von Stosch-Diebitsch, Engel & Voelkers Braunschweig, 011-49-531-21369-00; engelvoelkers.com/de-de/braunschweig/
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page RE11 of the New York edition with the headline: A Hillside Home That Sits in a Small Village.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »