
By PETER LIBBEYJAN. 17, 2018

Recently discovered artifacts of colonial America’s artisanal history will be unveiled to the public on Thursday at the New York Ceramics and Glass Fair.
After being found buried in a privy shaft in the Old City district of Philadelphia, over 10 pieces of slipware pottery from the 18th century will displayed in a show called “Buried Treasure: New Discoveries in Philadelphia Slipware from the Collection of the Museum of the American Revolution.”
The ceramics were uncovered during an excavation of the grounds of the new Museum of the American Revolution in Philadelphia. Archaeologists from the Commonwealth Heritage Group recovered almost 85,000 artifacts from the site between 2014 and 2016.
“What is so exciting about this discovery is that it is a reminder of the importance of archaeology in colonial urban sites like Philadelphia,” Dr. R. Scott Stephenson, the vice president of collections, exhibitions and programming at the Museum of the American Revolution, said in a statement.
Advertisement
Slipware pottery is distinguished by the liquid clay applied directly to it as decoration. The pieces that will be on display at the Ceramics and Glass Fair bear abstract patterns made using this technique.
Advertisement
According to Robert Hunter, an archaeologist and the editor of the journal Ceramics in America, research suggests that the slipware pottery found in Philadelphia was made by French or German potters working in the city. The French archaeologist Alban Horry has pointed out the kinship between the Philadelphia finds and certain pieces of French pottery made in the Montpellier area in the late 17th century.
“It’s extremely unusual to see such intact objects and this adds to the visual importance of these wares in addition to the historical importance,” said Mr. Hunter by phone. “It adds to their appeal and it’s going to surprise a lot of people that such visually impactful wares were being made in Philadelphia at that time.”
Deborah Miller, an archaeologist, will discuss the significance of the discovered pieces in a lecture on Thursday at 2 p.m. at the Ceramic and Glass Fair. For more information, visit nyceramicsandglass.com.
A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 2018, on Page C2 of the New York edition with the headline: Show Features Pottery From Colonial Days.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.