

                Tech Tip            
By                     
                                    J. D. BIERSDORFER
                            
                JAN. 18, 2018
    
Q. How long does Dropbox keep previous versions of Word files around? 
A. For those with free basic or Plus accounts, Dropbox keeps a complete version history of each file you have stored and edited online for 30 days. If you pay extra for a Dropbox Business or Dropbox Professional account, you get 120 days of version history for your files. (The company no longer sells an “extended version history” option for Dropbox Plus accounts that kept a year’s worth of editing changes to a file.) With any plan, changes made to a file downloaded for offline editing are not included in the version history records.
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
When you are working on a document and realize you want to go back to an earlier draft, you can time travel by logging into your account on the Dropbox site, clicking the three-dot Menu icon next to the name of the file and selecting Version History. The next screen shows a list of all the variations of a file within the version-history window. Click the file name to preview it or check the date. Click the Restore button when you find the one you want.
If you use the Dropbox badge — a pop-up icon that appears on the edge of Microsoft Office files — you have a shortcut. Click the Dropbox badge icon and select Version History from the menu to jump to the Dropbox website.
Dropbox is not the only company that provides such file-history features. Google Docs, Microsoft OneDrive and Apple’s iWork files with its iCloud Drive service (or the document-restoration tools that arrived with macOS Sierra) are among those with version-history options. Newer versions of Microsoft Office include file-history and recovery tools. Standard system backup utilities, like Apple’s Time Machine or Microsoft’s backup and restore software for Windows, can also help you recover past file variations.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »