

                Tech Tip            
By                     
                                    J. D. BIERSDORFER
                            
                JAN. 19, 2018
    
Q. I was trying to install a new version of a program I’ve used for years and Windows 10 gave me a warning box about it not being a “verified” app. What exactly is a verified app, and should I be worried about installing this “unverified” program?
A. In an effort to keep unsuspecting people from inadvertently installing malicious software, Microsoft encourages users to get their Windows 10 software directly from its own online Windows App Store. While shareware sites and developers have traditionally offered software for sale or as free downloads on their own sites, some have bundled in spyware or malware with the goods. Programs purchased from the Windows App Store and downloaded directly from Microsoft have been approved and verified by the company as being safe, compatible and up to the company’s guidelines for Windows software.
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
An up-to-date antivirus program can catch many kinds of rogue software, but if you do not want to worry as much (or have children who may download software indiscriminately) you can set Windows 10 to do more than warn about apps coming from other sources beyond the Windows App Store. You can block apps from anywhere but the Windows App Store — or go the other way and allow apps from anywhere.
Go to the Start menu to the Settings icon; you can also press the Windows and I keys on the keyboard as a shortcut. In the Settings box, select Apps and then Apps & Features. In the Installing Apps section, use the drop-down menu to choose the sources the computer can use for software shopping.
Apple has a similar approach to third-party software security for its online storefronts, including those for desktop Mac programs, iTunes Store digital media purchases, iBooks, and iOS apps and games. Google has also stepped up screening of harmful apps in its Google Play store. As with all the online software stores (Apple’s included), creative malware may find new ways to sneak in, even for a short time, so keep your guard up.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »