
By MIKAYLA BOUCHARDJAN. 19, 2018

WASHINGTON — It’s déjà vu. The fiery rhetoric that lawmakers lobbed at each other in 2013, during the last government shutdown, echoes today as another shutdown took effect beginning at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Time, Saturday.
The sentiments on Twitter, in floor speeches and interviews are similar, but who is saying them has changed. In 2013, during the Obama administration, the Democrats had control of the Senate and the Republicans controlled the House. Now, under President Trump, the Republicans control both chambers.
Here’s a look at the statements made and who said them, now that the political roles are largely reversed.
2013 — President Barack Obama
“Right now, House Republicans continue to tie funding of the government to ideological demands like limiting a woman’s access to contraception or delaying the Affordable Care Act, all to save face after making some impossible promises to the extreme right wing of their party.” — Sept. 30, 2013
2018 — President Trump

            Government Funding Bill past last night in the House of Representatives. Now Democrats are needed if it is to pass in the Senate - but they want illegal immigration and weak borders. Shutdown coming? We need more Republican victories in 2018!        
Worth noting …
Here’s what Mr. Trump had to say about the shutdown in 2013.

            “Here’s the truth, the gov't doesn’t shutdown” http://t.co/Ny6RxVYiP0 via @AP. All essential services continue. Don't believe lies.        

            My sense is that people are far angrier at the President than they are at Congress re the shutdown—an interesting turn!        
So far, Mr. Obama has remained silent on the shutdown.
2013 — Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada
“You know with a bully you cannot let them slap you around, because they slap you around today, they slap you five or six times tomorrow,” Mr. Reid, a former boxer, continued. “We are not going to be bullied.” — Sept. 30, 2013
“She’s struggling because she doesn’t make that much money, and now to have her job gone. It’s that way all over America. And why? To extract political concessions through hostage taking of one issue, one issue: Obamacare.” — Oct. 1, 2013
Advertisement
2018 — Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky
“The American people, the citizens who actually elected us, will be watching. They will see which senators make the patriotic decision to stand up for the American people to vote to continue government funding.”
“They will see which senators, he continued, “hold the entire country hostage until we pass an immigration bill they haven’t even written yet. This is completely unfair and uncompassionate.” — January 18, 2018
2013 — Mr. McConnell
“We got off track with a tactical error earlier starting in July and August that diverted our attention away from what was achievable,” Mr. McConnell said in an interview with Politico. “And so we’ll be back at it in January and February, which is why the best you can say is, ‘It’s a punt.’” — Oct. 17, 2013
2018 — Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York
“We’re going to have to go in a different direction. Ideally, we would all roll up our sleeves and try to reach an agreement on all of the issues we need to resolve,” Mr. Schumer said.
“We could easily sit down and find a cosmic agreement that would get the support of the majority on both sides, in both houses, and keep the government open. Despite all the rhetoric around here, I genuinely believe that. The one thing standing in our way is the unrelenting flow of chaos from the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. It has reduced the Republicans to shambles. We barely know who to negotiate with.” — January 18, 2018
Advertisement
2013
Mr. Mulvaney was then Representative Mick Mulvaney, Republican of South Carolina, and a member of the House Freedom Caucus, which was largely blamed for setting off the shutdown. His office released the following statement during the shutdown.
“In many ways, then, this is a government ‘slowdown’ more than it is a ‘shutdown.’ I know that is not much consolation for folks who are personally affected by the 25% of government that is closed, but again, the House is working to fix that.”
2018
Now, Mr. Mulvaney is the president’s budget director and the acting director of the Consumer and Financial Protection Bureau.
“One of the things that I’ve learned since I’ve been in this office is that — there’s no other way to describe it — but the Obama administration weaponized the shutdown in 2013. What they didn’t tell you was that they did not encourage agencies to use carry forward funds, funds that they were sitting on, nor did they encourage agencies to use transfer authority.” — Jan. 19, 2018, during a White House briefing
2013
Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, was then the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
“Right now, we need to find common ground. We need to open the federal government. We need to pay our bills today — and make sure we can pay our bills tomorrow,” Mr. Ryan wrote in an op-ed for The Wall Street Journal.
“I want a budget agreement — because if we don’t make the tough decisions now, we’ll face only tougher decisions later. We can work together. We can do some good. All it takes is leadership — and for the president to come to the table.” — Oct. 8, 2013
2018
Now, as Speaker of the House, Mr. Ryan’s words carry the weight of congressional leadership.

            Senator Schumer, do not shut down the federal government.⁰⁰Do not jeopardize funding for our military and for our national security.⁰⁰Do not jeopardize funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program.⁰⁰It is risky. It is reckless. And it is wrong. pic.twitter.com/1NLeGDY20i        
An earlier version of this article misidentified the state that Mick Mulvaney represented in Congress. It was South Carolina, not Virginia.
Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »