

                Ask Real Estate            
By                     
                                    RONDA KAYSEN
                            
                JAN. 20, 2018
    
Q. I recently moved into a renovated apartment in Hell’s Kitchen that is heated with steam. The valve on the radiator wakes me up most nights, intermittently making one of the loudest hissing sounds I have ever heard. Think of a teakettle whistling so loud that the noise interrupts conversations in the living room when my bedroom door is closed. I contacted my landlord, who sent a plumber, but the plumber said there were no solutions. Is there any way to fix this? And, if not, what are my options? I am desperate for a good night’s sleep.
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A. Radiators can be noisy things that clang and hiss as steam heats a room. But one that functions properly should not sound like a wailing teakettle. Your radiator may have a problem with an air valve. Air valves, also known as air vents, open and close as steam flows through the radiator. (Unlike a control valve, you cannot turn an air valve on or off.)
These valves come in different sizes and are easily replaceable. “You could probably put a different type of air valve on the radiator that expels the air a little slower,” said Philip Kraus, the president of Fred Smith Plumbing and Heating in Manhattan. “It’s not complicated at all. You just unscrew it and put another one on.”

            Submit your questions, share your stories and tell us what topics interest you most. Post a comment or email us at realestateqa@nytimes.com.        
Assuming this is the problem, your landlord should address it. “The landlord is shirking his or her legal obligations here,” said Lucas A. Ferrara, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. Because the condition violates the warranty of habitability, a state law that protects tenants, you are entitled to a rent abatement and if the problem cannot be fixed, may be allowed to terminate your lease, Mr. Ferrara said.
You could write the landlord a letter, including these points, sent by certified mail, demanding that the problem be addressed. You could also call 311 to report the matter.
Your fastest route to a good night’s sleep, however, may be through your superintendent. Ask the super to replace the valve, something that Mr. Kraus said a handyman could do. While you should not have to pay for such work, offering a tip may get the job done faster.
To submit your question or comments, email realestateqa@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2018, on Page RE2 of the New York edition with the headline: Steaming Over a Noisy Radiator And Sleepless in Manhattan.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »