
Advertisement
Supported by
By Dave Itzkoff
The game show parody has been a fundamental building block of “Saturday Night Live” since time immemorial, from one-off bits like “Jackie Rogers Jr.’s $100,000 Jackpot Wad” to long-running sendups of “Celebrity Jeopardy!” and “Family Feud.”
The format achieved a kind of Platonic ideal on this weekend’s episode of “S.N.L.,” which featured a satirical game show that seemed perfectly calibrated for the current moment. It was called “What Even Matters Anymore?” and starred an increasingly unraveling M.C. played by the evening’s guest host, Jessica Chastain.
Ms. Chastain explained it as “the show where I tell you something our president did or said, and you have to tell me: Does it even matter anymore?”
Her first question for the contestants: “The president of the United States refers to African countries as poo-poo holes, and says all Haitians have AIDS. Does it even matter anymore?”
A contestant played by Kate McKinnon was the first to ring in. “That’s really bad,” Ms. McKinnon said. “That has to matter, yes.”
As a buzzer sounded, a dejected Ms. Chastain replied: “Actually, it does not matter. Zero consequences, and everyone just moves on.”
She proposed another scenario: “The president has an extramarital affair with a porn star, right after his wife gives birth to a son. Then he pays the porn star to shut up. Does it even matter to, say, his evangelical base?”
Kenan Thompson, playing another contestant, answered: “To evangelicals, of course it matters. It’s against everything that they stand for.”
The buzzer sounded again. “You’d think so, but no,” Ms. Chastain said despairingly. “They say he’s just repented and they forgive him, and Mike Pence is like, ‘That’s my dude.’”
The game went on, with Ms. Chastain’s character drifting further into delirium and eventually asking the three players to write down anything they thought would matter or lead to consequences for President Trump. The contestants came back with scenarios like “Trump Punches Pope,” “He Cancels Olympics Because Flags Are ‘Gay,’” and “Sex Tape With Don Jr.”
Wrong again, Ms. Chastain countered for each: “Because nothing truly matters — none of it matters.”
In the opening sketch, Aidy Bryant played Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, holding a news conference to discuss the results of Mr. Trump’s recent physical examination.
Ms. Bryant first addressed the shutdown of the federal government, saying:
President Trump maintains that any deal he signs must include a border wall, and he’s been consistent that it must be a solid, physical wall with some parts see-through, some parts fence and some parts empty spaces that just operate on the honor system. And it will be paid for by Mexico with U.S. taxpayer money.
Playing the White House physician, Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, Beck Bennett then came to the podium to discuss “how not-fat the president is.” Mr. Bennett said his “unbiased, 100 percent accurate health assessment” had found that President Trump weighed “a very svelte 239 pounds” with “a gorgeous, 44-inch Coke-bottle waist.” The president is “75 inches” tall (or 6-foot-3, which is accurate), Mr. Bennett said, “with legs that — well, they seem to go on forever,” and he wears a size 12 shoe, “so you can fill in the blanks there.”
In this week’s other memorable moments:
Naturally, “Weekend Update” couldn’t resist the saga of Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic-film actress known as Stormy Daniels who has said she had an affair with Mr. Trump and was reportedly paid $130,000 in hush money shortly before the 2016 election.
“This week, I was finally able to Google ‘Stormy Daniels’ on my work computer,” said Colin Jost, the co-anchor.
He continued:
In an interview from 2011, porn star Stormy Daniels said that while she was having an affair with Donald Trump, he told her she was beautiful and smart, just like his daughter. Which is somehow the grossest thing anyone has ever said to Stormy Daniels. I just love watching Mike Pence through all of this. He’s a button-down, conservative Christian. Now he’s going to go ride-or-die with Caligula. At this point, Pence would probably be more comfortable as a judge on ‘RuPaul’s Drag Race.’”
Mr. Jost’s co-anchor, Michael Che, added:
The worst part about that Stormy Daniels story was that it was so lame. An old rich dude cheated on his wife with a porn star. Clutch my pearls. I thought we’d at least get some freaky details out of it. I mean, Donald Trump grabs women by the vagina as his opener. So, his actual sex must be insane, right? But the craziest thing we got is that he was spanked with a magazine and he’s afraid of sharks. Well, of course he’s afraid of sharks — the man has a body of a seal.”
Cecily Strong portrayed Ms. Clifford in a deskside segment on “Weekend Update,” in which Mr. Jost introduced her as an “unlikely ally for critics of Donald Trump.”
Ms. Strong agreed. “I’m like a liberal hero,” she said, “even though I’m a Republican porn star who loves Sarah Palin. Right? Things are so bad now, there are so many women just desperately trying to figure out how to be empowered by me. And the best they can say is that I’m a female director.”
She added: “Now, I get it, that I’m not what these people envisioned their hero would look like. But guess what, America? I’m the hero you deserve right now.”
In her opening monologue, Ms. Chastain expressed regret that she could not participate in the Women’s March this weekend. Instead, she performed a cover of “You Don’t Own Me” with Ms. McKinnon and Ms. Strong, while other cast members tossed out quick jokes about the event.
Ms. Bryant said she had “p-hats” for the occasion, adding, “I can’t say the real word because it’s just one of those many words that only the president can use.”
Her co-star Leslie Jones strode out and said, “You mean pussy hats?”
Later, Melissa Villaseñor explained why she was dressing up for the march: “Look, I’m a proud feminist, but I’m still trying to catch a husband,” she said.
If Ms. McKinnon can play Hillary Clinton, Kellyanne Conway, Theresa May, Angela Merkel, Mika Brzezinski, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Jeff Sessions, then why not Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 election?
Wearing a facial prosthesis that we’ll see later in our nightmares, Ms. McKinnon portrayed Mr. Mueller as not trying too hard to conceal the progress of his investigation. “You know how you loved the show ‘Lost,’ but it never really came together?” she asked. “There was no satisfying ending? This ain’t ‘Lost.’”
Speaking of fever dreams, this week’s standout contribution from Chris Redd, a featured player in his first season on “S.N.L.,” is this homage to the opening credits of “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air,” the ’90s sitcom starring Will Smith. Rather than spoil it, let’s just say it takes a lot of unexpected turns (unless you were expecting a cameo from the actor and Wu-Tang alum Method Man).
Advertisement