
Advertisement
Supported by
Renters
By Kim Velsey
On a recent Friday morning, Simon Hanes, 26, answered the front door of his Bushwick, Brooklyn, house-share with a yawn and an apology: He had been up all night finishing a song that he hoped to perform the following night with his 10-piece band, Tredici Bacci.
“It’s called ‘In the 1970s,’” Mr. Hanes said. His band — the main of several musical projects that he has going — plays what he refers to as Italian soundtrack pop, led by Luxardo, a flamboyant personality he created for himself. “I had to do a lot of work to finish it.”
“Well,” he corrected. “I still haven’t finished it.”
The four-bedroom house, one half of a brick duplex that he moved into last September and shares with a journalist, a playwright and two other musicians, is by far the nicest place that he has lived in New York. It has an ample kitchen and a large, thoughtfully furnished living room. A couple shares the largest bedroom and everyone else has their own room. Mr. Hanes pays $750 a month for a room that he describes as “cozy,” though others might opt for a different word.
He had to remove the closet door because it wouldn’t be possible to have both the door and a bed. A recent survey of the room revealed a music shelf stuffed with composition and scoring sheets (and a plastic skeleton), a desk, four guitars, a mandolin, two keyboards (propped vertically), a recorder and a large bag of cotton balls. The bag was bought for a cappuccino Halloween costume that failed to come together this year and so is being held in reserve for 2018. A library book was propped open on the foot of the bed: “Shantymen and Shantyboys: Songs of the Sailor and Lumberman.”
Tredici Bacci has attracted considerable attention — Rolling Stone named Mr. Hanes one of the 10 artists to watch last November, praising the group’s first full length album, “Amore Per Tutti,” as a “horns-and-string vehicle for sexy, mysterious, mod-a-go-go romps through pop’s eccentric European past.”
The band is also, Mr. Hanes said, “the biggest money suck in the whole world.”
He pays each of the 10 members a bare minimum of $50 a show, but they often make less than $300 total. “And,” he said, “as a band leader, I would be nothing without these musicians, so at rehearsals, there’s beer, there’s food and I try to rent a bigger rehearsal space so people aren’t cramped.”
His general plan for the band? He laughed. “We’ll become extremely lucrative and people will be paying us thousands of dollars to perform,” he said, adding that financials aside, “the part of this that is really enjoyable is being with all the musicians and working on it, having fun, all the community elements.”
To support Tredici and otherwise make ends meet, he tends bar at an experimental music venue, Roulette Intermedium, and occasionally picks up the odd, well-paying job. For example, when he last visited his parents in the San Francisco Bay Area, he went to a studio in Napa and helped write and record music for a documentary.
“And I’m also starting to sell shirts,” he added. “I have a bunch of wiggly shirts.”
That he makes?
“No, just shirts that I have.” He shrugged, referring to some stripy, loud, colorful shirts he happens to own. “It was just an idea to make money.”
Mr. Hanes moved to New York about four years ago; he had been living in Boston, where he went to the New England Conservatory and formed Tredici Bacci with some fellow graduates. He eventually persuaded almost everyone in the band, whose ranks sometimes swell to 14, to join him in New York over the past few years.
“I initially moved here for three months, making sure I had to go back to Boston because I didn’t want to be seduced by New York’s charms,” he said. “And then, of course, I got seduced by New York’s charms and immediately regretted it.”
A series of terrible apartments followed. There was “a weird, scary basement in Bushwick,” then a weirder, scarier basement in Bushwick where he could hear animals scrabbling around in the walls.
After that, he ended up in a “glorified Bushwick flophouse,” which had a secret entrance in the back of a bookstore. “That was awesome,” he concedes, “but the rooms were essentially cells separated by two-by-fours.” Next came a “residency” at a music venue, for which he paid $800 a month for a room even smaller than the one he lives in now. It also lacked heat or hot water, so he had to shower at a friend’s place.
He decamped to a $540 room in another building, with hot water, but the floors were warped into hills and a hole in the back of the house meant that he shared the space not only with roommates, but also with raccoons.
“All that made moving into here all the more amazing,” said Mr. Hanes, sitting in his duplex’s large, eat-in kitchen. Clean pans sat on the stove and the sink was empty, with a pair of dishwashing gloves draped over the faucet. One roommate came in to make tea and toast. Another sat at a desk in the front window, working quietly at a laptop.
And, after a cup of coffee, Mr. Hanes was headed back upstairs to his bedroom. Not to sleep, he clarified, but to finish up his latest composition.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.



Advertisement