

                Tech Tip            
By                     
                                    J. D. BIERSDORFER
                            
                JAN. 23, 2018
    
Q. I have a Netflix account for streaming only. Is there a list of all the movies and shows available with French-dubbed audio?
A. Netflix supports alternate audio and subtitles in multiple languages for much of its content, but not every show or movie is available in every supported language. One way to see what items are available in French (or another language) in your region is to log into your Netflix account and point your browser to netflix.com/subtitles.
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On the Audio & Subtitles page, use the drop-down menus to select Audio or onscreen Subtitles, and then choose a language. In the United States, 18 languages (including French, German, Hindi, Spanish, Tagalog and more) are currently listed. Once you have made your menu selections, Netflix shows you the available content.
When you have chosen a show you know has French audio available, you need to enable the alternate dialogue track. For smartphones and tablets, start the show, then tap the screen and then tap the word-balloon icon that appears at the top. In the menu that opens, select French from the list to hear the audio track in that language.
Getting to the language setting on a set-top streaming box varies by model, so check your help guide. On the Netflix app on a Roku box, for example, choose a video, select Audio & Subtitles on the description page and pick your language before going back to the description page and pressing the Play button.
You can change your preferred default language, style of subtitle text, auto-play preference and more in your Netflix account settings. To get there, log in to Netflix.com, select your profile icon on the right side of the screen and choose Account.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Watching Netflix en Français.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »