

                International Real Estate            
By                     
                                    LISA PREVOST
                            
                JAN. 24, 2018
    

            CreditCatherine Côté for The New York Times        
A SIX-BEDROOM HOUSE IN QUEBEC CITY
$596,000 (745,000 CANADIAN DOLLARS)
This three-level brick house, built in 1832, is in Old Quebec, a section of Quebec City designated as a Unesco World Heritage site, in the Canadian province of Quebec.
The six-bedroom house, which is operated as a bed-and-breakfast, was originally a tavern and inn, said the owner, Jacques Brouard. The buyer may use it as a private residence or continue to operate it as a B&B under the terms of a city permit, he said.
The main floor has a living room, dining room, kitchen, office and powder room. There is a fireplace in the dining room, which has walls of exposed brick and limestone, a common building material in Old Quebec, Mr. Brouard said. A large wooden door separates the dining room from the rustic kitchen, which has a wood stove and a round center island.
A stairway at the front of the house leads to the second level, currently used only by the owners, Mr. Brouard said. It has three bedrooms, one of which has a fireplace, and one bath with a soaking tub and open shower. A small office is at the end of the hallway.
Advertisement
Another stairway leads to the third-level guest rooms: three bedrooms with dormers, three full bathrooms and a small living room. (The city permit allows the booking of three bedrooms.)
Advertisement
The floors on the first and second levels are pine, and the flooring on the top level is cork.
A yard and parking area are to one side of the house. Behind the property, a nearby staircase leads to the Battlefields Park, a national park that includes the Plains of Abraham, the site of a defining battle during the French and Indian War.
The property is less than a mile from the Boulevard Champlain, which runs along the St. Lawrence River. A biking and walking path joins up with the Promenade Samuel-De Champlain, a popular riverside park about three miles away, Mr. Brouard said. The Jean Lesage International Airport is about a 20-minute drive.
MARKET OVERVIEW
The market in Quebec City has been fairly flat for several years, said Dominic St-Pierre, senior director of the Quebec province for the real estate company Royal LePage. While the city has a low unemployment rate, at less than 4 percent, he said, “it doesn’t have the population growth that some other Canadian cities have,” and a large inventory of homes for sale has kept prices from rising.
“It’s been a buyer’s market since 2013,” said Marc Pinsonneault, a senior economist with the National Bank of Canada. “Especially in the condo segment,” he added, which represented nearly a quarter of sales in the broader Quebec City metropolitan area last year.
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Overbuilding led to a glut of new condos, which stalled the sales of existing condos, stretching their days on market last year to almost twice that of 2011, Mr. Pinsonneault said, noting that prices of resale condos have declined by roughly 1 to 2 percent in each of the last four years.
In the fourth quarter of 2017, the median sale price for a condo in Quebec City was 240,000 Canadian dollars (or about $192,000), Mr. St-Pierre said. The median sale price for a “bungalow,” or single-level home, he said, was 267,000 Canadian dollars (about $214,000); for a two-story house, it was 355,000 Canadian dollars (or $284,000).
The areas of the city in highest demand are the borough of Les Rivières, which saw a 27 percent increase in sales last year, and the neighborhood of Sainte-Foy, where sales rose 17 percent, he said. Both are close to the city center and the river.
Advertisement
WHO BUYS IN QUEBEC CITY
Foreign buyers are more common in Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal, but Americans and Europeans do buy in Quebec. Martin Dostie, an agent with Sotheby’s International Realty Canada, which has this listing, said that most of his foreign clients are from France and Belgium, but he also has buyers from Spain, Uruguay and Mexico.
 BUYING BASICS
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers in Quebec, Mr. St-Pierre said. The real estate agent’s commission is usually 4.5 to 5 percent, and is paid by the seller.
Mortgages are available, but foreigners are typically required to put down at least 25 percent. And new lending rules in Canada require all buyers applying for a mortgage to meet a so-called stress test, Mr. St-Pierre said; they must prove they could still qualify for the mortgage if the interest rate were 2 percent higher.
WEBSITES
Quebec City tourism: quebecregion.com/en/
Quebec government: gouv.qc.ca/
Unesco listing of Old Quebec: whc.unesco.org/en/list/300
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
French and English; Canadian dollar (1 Canadian dollar = $0.80)
TAXES AND FEES
Annual city and school taxes on this property are 7,690 Canadian dollars, or about $6,150, Mr. Dostie said. But using the house as a private residence, rather than a B&B, would lower the city taxes, Mr. Brouard said.
Transaction fees usually total around 2 percent of the purchase price, and include a real estate transfer tax, often called the “welcome tax,” at a graduated rate based on the value of the property.
CONTACT
Martin Dostie, Martin Dostie Group/Sotheby’s International Realty Canada, 418-956-8687; sothebysrealty.ca
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 2018, on Page RE14 of the New York edition with the headline: A Chance to Live in Your Own Historic Site.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »