
Advertisement
Supported by
What You Get

24 Photos
View Slide Show ›
Myro Rosky
By Julie Lasky
WHAT A midcentury-modern home with three bedrooms, two bathrooms and a swimming pool
HOW MUCH $599,000
SIZE 1,640 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $365
SETTING Designed by Lester Avery, an architect known for his ranch houses in South Florida as well as a Miami Beach residence for the comedian Jackie Gleason, this home occupies a corner lot in the Poinsettia Heights neighborhood. It is about three miles from the beach, 10 minutes from downtown and 15 minutes from Fort Lauderdale–Hollywood International Airport.
INDOORS Original terrazzo floors and new brushed-aluminum-frame windows, doors and blinds are found throughout the home. The large central living space has a beamed, vaulted ceiling.
The kitchen retains its original wooden cabinets as well as the slot though which milk bottles were once delivered. It has been updated with quartz counters and stainless steel appliances.
Two bedrooms (one currently used as an office) have glass doors that open to the pool area in back. The rooms share a Jack-and-Jill bathroom with a floating vanity and a glass shower enclosure.
A third bedroom has an en-suite bathroom with an Art Deco-style tub and a pedestal sink.
OUTDOOR SPACE The .15-acre property was professionally landscaped and includes a newly paved driveway and pool area. There is an outdoor shower.
TAXES  $9,926 a year with a homestead exemption; $10,760 with no exemption
CONTACT Jeffery Sullivan, EWM Realty International, 954-383-2117; ewm.com
•
WHAT An 18th-century home with six bedrooms, six bathrooms, a three-bedroom guesthouse, two barns and a pond
HOW MUCH $599,900
SIZE 3,958 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $152
SETTING The home is in Litchfield County, about 45 minutes west of Hartford and slightly more than two hours north of New York City. It sits on 24 wooded acres.
INDOORS Dating to 1785, the main house was enlarged in the late 1800s and again around World War II, at which time two wings were added to accommodate the then-owner’s extended family.
Antique features include hardwood floors with a variety of board widths, multipaned sash windows with rippling glass and six working fireplaces.
The main level includes a parlor with a massive brick fireplace originally used for cooking, a living room (also with a working fireplace) and a study (ditto). The eat-in country kitchen connects to a dining room with a beamed ceiling. One room on this level is used as a bedroom, and there are two full bathrooms.
Two sets of stairs, front and back, lead upstairs. Among the five bedrooms on the second level is a master with a fireplace, an en-suite bathroom and a dressing room. Three additional bathrooms are on this floor, one of which has been modernized.
OUTDOOR SPACE A covered deck and patio area are in the back. The property includes the former caretaker’s house, which is now a three-bedroom guesthouse, and two barns, each used as a two-car garage (one also has a two-bedroom apartment). The large spring-fed pond has fish.
TAXES $14,996 a year
CONTACT Deb Smolley, Westbury Realty, 860-417-9200; westburyrealtyct.com
•
WHAT A condominium apartment with one bedroom and one bathroom
HOW MUCH $550,000
SIZE 714 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $770
SETTING The home is one of four apartments in a 1947 Art Deco-style building near the intersection of Alcatraz and Telegraph Avenues. The area is teeming with shops and restaurants, and the address is about a 15-minute walk from the Bay Area Rapid Transit station in the Rockridge neighborhood.
INDOORS The owner recently gut-renovated the home, creating a dining niche in the living room. Pale hardwood floors and multipaned windows accentuate a feeling of lightness throughout the space.
The kitchen has been updated with new surfaces and appliances, including a washer and dryer; a counter provides casual room for eating. The newly tiled, sleek white bathroom has a shower-over-tub. The living room and bedroom have ceiling fans.
OUTDOOR SPACE A door in the kitchen leads to a shared back patio, near the entrance to the building’s individual storage units. The home also comes with one parking space in a detached garage.
TAXES $8,049 a year
HOA FEE $200 a month
CONTACT Mindy Scott, the Grubb Company, 510-821-2075; grubbco.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.



Advertisement