
By NINA SIEGALJAN. 24, 2018

AMSTERDAM — The Stedelijk Museum has canceled a major retrospective of the architect and designer Ettore Sottsass that was scheduled to open in April, after a conflict with his estate over the exhibition’s content.
On Friday, the Stedelijk, which is the Netherlands’ leading museum of contemporary art and design, announced its decision to cancel the show, which it said would have included more than 400 art and design pieces, some from its own collection and some on loan from about 30 institutions and collections. It said in a statement that the Sottsass estate and a gallery representing the designer had attempted to “dictate” the content of the exhibition.
The Met Breuer offered a Sottsass retrospective in New York last year, which was hastily assembled and received mixed reviews. The Amsterdam exhibition would have been significantly larger than the Met’s.
The Met declined to comment for this article.
Mr. Sottsass, who died at age 90 in 2007, was trained as an architect and helped found the influential Memphis Group of Italian designers. He became renowned as a design maverick for his postmodern, colorful furniture and products, such as the red plastic Olivetti Valentine typewriter.
Advertisement
Jan Willem Sieburgh, the Stedelijk’s interim managing director, told The New York Times in a telephone interview on Tuesday that Mr. Sottsass’s widow and heir, Barbara Radice, had made it clear to him that she would not only withdraw her support and her art from the exhibition, but that she would also speak publicly against the show.
Advertisement
“I didn’t want to have a public media battle over the show,” Mr. Sieburgh said. He was hired to run the Stedelijk in November, after its former artistic director, Beatrix Ruf, resigned under a cloud of suspicion about alleged conflicts of interest, which Ms. Ruf called a “misunderstanding.”
Ms. Radice and Ernest Mourmans, who manages the Sottsass estate and also owns a collection of Sottsass works he had planned to loan to the Stedelijk, said in a joint statement on Tuesday that the museum’s account of the dispute was “misleading.” The statement added that the situation was “symptomatic” of the fact that “managerial and curatorial leadership and stewardship have been amiss in recent years” at the Stedelijk.
“Rather than enter into a constructive dialogue, for the past few months the curator chose to conduct the conversation about this exhibition in an adversarial and divisive fashion,” reads the statement. “In that spirit she also refused to detail her curatorial outline of the exhibition and her choice of works until a late date.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ingeborg de Roode, the curator of the museum’s design department and of the Sottsass exhibition, said, “This is really not true.” She added that she had had regular contact with Ms. Radice over the 18-month period when the Stedelijk was developing the concept, by phone, email and in person.
Ms. de Roode said that she thought Ms. Radice’s attitude had changed as a response to the poor reception of the Met Breuer’s Sottsass retrospective. “I can think of nothing else,” said Ms. de Roode. “Until then, it all seemed fine.”
Ms. Radice did not respond to requests for an interview. Mr. Mourmans said that she wanted the joint statement to reflect her views.
Mr. Sieburgh said that ultimately, the issue came down to a conflict over a museum’s role in presenting art. At a meeting with Ms. Radice last week, he said, she told him that a museum could hang “Guernica,” Pablo Picasso’s masterpiece, for instance, but should not do anything further — it should let the work speak for itself.
“That’s when I realized that it would be totally impossible for us to work together, because that’s the opposite of what I think a museum’s role could be,” said Mr. Sieburgh. “That was illuminating and also disappointing, and that’s when I realized that no options were available.”
The Stedelijk does not yet have a plan for an alternative exhibition.
A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2018, on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: Dutch Museum Cancels Ettore Sottsass Show.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.