
Advertisement
Supported by
Browsing
By Hayley Phelan
At the men’s wear shows in Europe this month, it was high season for that rare species, the men’s wear peacocks: those finely plumed gentlemen who flock to the shows, and are inevitably captured by street-style photographers. Besides being fun to look at, they have plenty of inventive wardrobe ideas that are worth a second look — even, or especially, if you’re a woman. Here, how to steal their best new looks.
In cold weather, outerwear is the most important real estate in your ensemble. To make the most of it, double up on two jackets in differing styles and complementing colors. For bonus style points, add a belt bag. The way to wear it now is slung across the body.
Gucci skinny-flare cady pants, $950 at net-a-porter.com; Topshop cropped coat, $130 at Topshop, topshop.com; Tory Sport quilted down jacket, $198 at Tory Sport, torysport.com; Prada tech twill belt bag with leather trim, $840 at Barneys New York, barneys.com; Opening Ceremony zip-front platform oxfords, $300 at Opening Ceremony, openingceremony.com.
How does one wear a beret seriously? The men have some ideas. No need to go all Francophile in a peacoat and striped shirt. The chapeau feels freshest when juxtaposed against sporty and street wear staples. In other words, pull it on with what you normally wear.
Martin Grant cotton trench, $1,980 at modaoperandi.com; The Row wool-cashmere sweater, $1,109 at Matches Fashion, matchesfashion.com;  Linda Farrow black acetate and gold-plated titanium sunglasses, $645 at ssense.com; Asos wool beret, $16 at asos.com; Acne Studios straight-leg denim jeans, $361 at Matches Fashion, matchesfashion.com.
A suit and turtleneck — did anyone wear it better than Miles Davis? — has an irresistibly cool swagger. It’s a classic combo that women have been slow to catch on to. Well, no more. Wear the men’s wear look with hoops and on-trend shoes for extra oomph.
Topshop double-breasted jacket, $125, and tapered pants, $95, at Topshop, topshop.com; Topshop rose gold hoops, $9 at Topshop; topshop.com; Uniqlo ribbed merino turtleneck, $19.90 (on sale) at Uniqlo, uniqlo.com; 3.1 Phillip Lim leather mules with plexi heels, $650 at ssense.com.
Advertisement