
Advertisement
Supported by
Best of Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. What do you think of it? What else are you interested in? Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.
Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, promised he would bring a vote to the floor next month on a bill to let the young immigrants called Dreamers stay in the United States legally. It was all part of a deal to keep the government open. Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, said he would hold Mr. McConnell accountable, but Seth Meyers has his doubts.
“I’m sorry, Democrats, but I just don’t trust you to hold anyone’s feet to the fire. I don’t even trust you around fire. I can’t imagine it not ending up with all your hair burned off.” — SETH MEYERS
Part of his skepticism related to Mr. McConnell, who said he intended to keep his word.
“What do you mean, you intend? It’s your word. Are you worried you’ll try to keep it, but it’ll get stuck in your neck bubble?” — SETH MEYERS
When President Trump asked the Guggenheim last year to lend the White House a painting by Vincent van Gogh, it didn’t just decline. According to a report in The Washington Post, the museum made a pointed counteroffer: It suggested a sculpture by Maurizio Cattelan titled “America” that consists of a functioning, solid gold toilet, and that is seen as a critique of conspicuous wealth.
Jimmy Kimmel relished the gesture.
“Basically, the museum told Trump to van Gogh ‘f’ himself.” — JIMMY KIMMEL
The Trumps didn’t accept the sculpture, but Mr. Kimmel said they should have.
“I’m surprised they said no. To me, a gold toilet is way better than a van Gogh. I mean, the first time you pee on a van Gogh it’s ruined.” — JIMMY KIMMEL
“Officials in a South Carolina zoo say an orangutan briefly escaped his enclosure on Monday, but then returned to his pen. Incidentally, ‘the orangutan escaped his enclosure’ is secret service code for when Trump shows up at a policy briefing.” — SETH MEYERS
“You can’t just fire every guy who investigates you. I mean, he’s running the White House by the exact same rules as ‘The Apprentice.’ He doesn’t understand. He’s like, ‘Nobody had a problem when I fired Meatloaf!’ ” — JIMMY KIMMEL, referring to a New York Times report that Mr. Trump had tried to fire the special counsel Robert Mueller
“President Trump arrived in Switzerland this morning for the World Economic Forum, and immediately converted his money into franks.” — SETH MEYERS, showing a photograph of hot dogs
Mr. Fallon’s goofy grin tends to make it look like he’s playing with an adorable baby deer at all times. In this video, he is, in fact, playing with an adorable baby deer.
“The Opposition” is here to warn you: Beware of shawarma law.
On Tuesday, Mr. Trump will deliver his State of the Union address. Stephen Colbert will be broadcasting live that night, giving his reaction. But Mr. Kimmel has another idea entirely: He tweeted that he’ll interview Stormy Daniels (a.k.a. Stephanie Clifford), the former adult-film actress who allegedly had an affair with Mr. Trump in 2006. The Times Late-Night Comedy Committee will be here to deliver a full recap.
The Grammys are this Sunday. Will they have a #MeToo moment?
Advertisement