
Advertisement
Supported by
By Gabe Cohn
A documentary on the folk-rock group the Avett Brothers airs on HBO. And a pair of immigration stories in “Between 2 Shores.”
MAY IT LAST: A PORTRAIT OF THE AVETT BROTHERS (2017) 8 p.m. on HBO. Eschewing the star-studded route that many rock documentaries take, this film focuses on the familial bond between the brothers and group co-founders Scott and Seth Avett. Shot largely in their native North Carolina and co-directed by Michael Bonfiglio and Judd Apatow, the documentary chronicles the making of the band’s 2016 album “True Sadness” while also telling the group’s origin story through interviews with the brothers, band members and others close to them. At the center of the film is a sibling relationship that has proved both enduring and lucrative. “He’s my older brother, he’s bigger and stronger,” Seth says. “He knows how to do all these things I don’t know how to do.” When they were kids, the film reveals, that often involved roughhousing. Now they use their hands for songwriting.
BETWEEN 2 SHORES (2017) 8 p.m. on World. Mariette Monpierre’s documentary centers on two women who emigrated from the Dominican Republic to Guadeloupe, a cluster of French islands hundreds of miles away, and their struggles in raising their younger children there and finding a legal way for their older, Dominican-born children to immigrate. The film airs as part of World’s “AfroPoP: The Ultimate Cultural Exchange” series, which highlights the diversity of the black diaspora. All programs in the series are also available to stream the day after they air on worldchannel.org.
ALL IS LOST (2013) on iTunes and Amazon. The Sundance Kid has no Butch Cassidy in “All Is Lost”; in fact, he has no partner at all. Robert Redford, as a well-off American man on a solo yacht voyage, is the only cast member in this intense tale from the director J.C. Chandor. The sailor is in the middle of the Indian Ocean when his boat is struck by a rogue shipping container, setting off a fight for survival that’s loaded with both suspense and metaphors. “The ancient Greeks believed that character should be revealed through action,” A.O. Scott wrote in his review for The Times. “I can’t think of another film that has upheld this notion so thoroughly and thrillingly.”
DETROIT (2017) on iTunes and Amazon. Kathryn Bigelow’s film is about the events surrounding the 1967 “12th Street riot” — deadly confrontations between Detroit’s largely black population and the police and National Guard. The film was not without its critics; some questioned whether Ms. Bigelow, who is white, was the correct person to tell the story. Speaking with The New York Times last year, she addressed that controversy head-on: “I have this opportunity to expose this story in the hope that maybe it either generates a conversation, begins to generate a conversation and/or encourages more stories like this to come forward,” she said, adding that “to do nothing was not an answer.”
Advertisement