
By KENNETH P. VOGEL and MAGGIE HABERMANJAN. 30, 2018

WASHINGTON — Todd Ricketts, a co-owner of the Chicago Cubs, is expected to be named the new finance chairman of the Republican National Committee, replacing the casino magnate Steve Wynn, who was pushed out amid allegations of serious sexual abuse, three Republican officials said on Tuesday.
Spokesmen for Mr. Ricketts and the R.N.C. did not respond to requests for comment on Tuesday afternoon.
But an official in communication with the R.N.C. said that Mr. Ricketts was in the final stages of talks about accepting the position.
Mr. Ricketts has become an ally of President Trump, despite a rocky start to their relationship.
The Ricketts family, which owes its fortune to the founding of the brokerage firm TD Ameritrade by the family patriarch Joe Ricketts, donated $5.5 million to a “super PAC” seeking to block Mr. Trump from winning the Republican presidential nomination. That prompted Mr. Trump to lash out at the family on Twitter, writing that they “better be careful, they have a lot to hide!”
Advertisement
But, after Mr. Trump won the nomination, the Ricketts family donated or raised many times more than that for a pair of groups that supported Mr. Trump’s candidacy.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Trump had nominated Todd Ricketts to be a deputy secretary of commerce last year, but Mr. Ricketts withdrew his nomination, citing potential conflicts of interests between the job and his family’s business interests.
The R.N.C. could formally consider Mr. Ricketts’ nomination at its annual winter meeting, which is being held this week at the Trump International Hotel here.
Advertisement
Mr. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence are expected to speak at the meeting.
A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: A Cubs Owner Tapped to Lead G.O.P. Finance.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »