

                Tech Tip            
By                     
                                    J. D. BIERSDORFER
                            
                JAN. 30, 2018
    
Q. I’m new to Instagram. Aside from the service suggesting Facebook friends who also have Instagram accounts, how do I find new people to follow?
A. Like Twitter, LinkedIn and other networks, Instagram has a search function you can use to look for acquaintances other than those you already have on Facebook (which owns Instagram, hence the social synergy). Tap the magnifying glass in the Instagram tool bar to go to the search page, where you can seek out specific people, hashtags or places that match your keywords. The search page also lists so-called top accounts in the results.
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Hashtags are labels prefaced with a “#” character (as in #FlyEaglesFly, for example). Users add them to captions as a simple way to whittle down broader categories into narrower subjects. An Instagram hashtag page lists all the posts using the same tag.
Just as you can add certain people and businesses to the list of accounts you follow, you can now follow particular hashtags, a feature Instagram introduced late last year. When you are browsing your feed and see a hashtag that piques your interest, tap it. Instagram takes you to a page showing posts using that hashtag and if you like what you see, tap the blue Follow button at the top. New posts that contain that hashtag will then appear in your feed.
Later, if you lose interest in the topic, you can remove it from your feed. Tap the hashtag to return to its page and tap the Following button at the top to stop tracking the tag.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2018, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Following Along on Instagram.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »