
By ANDREW R. CHOWJAN. 31, 2018

“Animals With Cameras” offers an intimate look at life in the wild. And “Happy!” wraps up its first season. 
ANIMALS WITH CAMERAS 8 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). In 2016, a tense legal battle ensued in federal court in California over the ownership of a selfie taken by a monkey. (The case was eventually settled with a charitable donation.) The animals in this series won’t be getting checks for this documentary, in which they are equipped with body cameras. Regardless, the audience benefits, getting glimpses into animal life that had previously been out of reach. The first episode goes underground with meerkats, across plains with cheetahs and above the trees with a chimpanzee in Cameroon.
BIG PAPI NEEDS A JOB 8 p.m. on Fusion.  Even the most die-hard Yankee fans have to grudgingly acknowledge the charisma that David Ortiz carried with him onto the baseball field, with his Cheshire cat grin and exuberant celebrations. Since his retirement in 2016, his outsize personality has translated well to broadcasting, where he spars with his former rival Alex Rodriguez; in this show, he tries his hand at various professions, including playing music — at Berklee College — and manicuring.
HAPPY! 10 p.m. on Syfy. This comic book adaptation has been a hit for Syfy despite (or perhaps because of) its twisted and gruesome themes, and was recently picked up for a second season. Christopher Meloni stars as Nick, an alcoholic hit man who reluctantly teams up with a flying blue unicorn to track down a child-snatching man in a Santa Claus suit, all while being chased by the mob. (It makes slightly more sense onscreen.) The first season ends on Wednesday, as a confrontation between Nick and the Santa looms at Christmastime.
STEP UP: HIGH WATER on YouTube Red. Despite shaky reviews, the 2006 dance film “Step Up” was a breakout hit at the box office. It went on to spawn four sequels and lifted the careers of its two leads, Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan Tatum. This new spinoff takes place at a competitive performing arts high school in Atlanta, where the students dance, fight and fall in love; Ne-Yo and Naya Rivera play school administrators. The Tatums executive produced the series.
THE LONGEST DAY (1962) on Netflix. Nowadays, the movies with the starriest casts are usually bad piecemeal romcoms. “The Longest Day,” on the other hand, won two Oscars with a cast featuring John Wayne, Richard Burton, Sean Connery, Henry Fonda, George Segal and plenty more. They portrayed soldiers on both sides of World War II on the days leading up to the Allied landing at Normandy and recreated some of the missions that took place on June 6, 1944. The film, which leaves Netflix on Thursday, employed military consultants involved in the invasion.
A version of this schedule appears in print on January 31, 2018, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Wednesday.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.