
Advertisement
Supported by
What You Get

24 Photos
View Slide Show ›
Planomatic
By Julie Lasky
WHAT A modern home with four bedrooms and three bathrooms, built in 1953
HOW MUCH $725,000
SIZE 2,340 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $310
SETTING The home is in a wooded suburb north of Seattle, among a concentration of midcentury houses. It is about 10 miles from Amazon’s headquarters and near a future stop in the area’s planned light-rail expansion.
INDOORS A recent renovation preserved the original floor plan and beam structure, and all the wood paneling that survived 60-plus years of insects and Pacific Northwest damp. A brick chimney divides the peaked central space, with the living room (and fireplace) on one side and kitchen and wood-paneled dining area on the other. The kitchen was updated with new cabinets, counters and appliances; the hanging globe lamps are original.
Three bedrooms are on this level, including a master with a modernized en-suite bathroom that has a vessel sink with double spigots. A second, updated full bathroom is in the hallway.
Downstairs is a family room with built-in cabinets and a fireplace. A fourth, carpeted bedroom is on this level, with a full bathroom next to it. There is also a downstairs storage room.
OUTDOOR SPACE There is a small wood deck at the front of the house, and a pair of wood balconies outside the living room and master bedroom in the back. A grassy seating area was created near the family room entrance.
The carport has room for two cars, and as many as eight vehicles can park in the front and back driveways.
TAXES $3,807
CONTACT Kimberly Shaeffer, John L. Scott Real Estate, 206-475-6500; johnlscott.com
•
WHAT An 1871 home with five bedrooms, two full bathrooms, two half bathrooms and a barn/garage
HOW MUCH $750,000
SIZE 4,602 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $163
SETTING The five-acre property is in a village 15 minutes north of Milwaukee. The area has several parks and nature preserves, and a private club and golf course are a mile away.
INDOORS Built with three-foot-thick walls of fieldstone and brick, the home received additions in the late 1950s and late 1960s. The barn, which dates from 1869, was connected to the main house in the later renovation. The current owner updated many features, installed geothermal heating and put a steel roof on the main house and barn.
At the house’s core is the living area, which has timber beams and shelves made from trees hewed on the property and a stone-and-brick fireplace. The nearby dining area has leaded windows made with circular glass pieces from bottle bottoms. An adjacent glassed-in sun porch is part of the 1950s addition, as is the kitchen, which has hickory wood floors and has been upgraded with granite countertops.
A glass-walled passageway with terrazzo and marble flooring connects to a 20th-century wing that includes an in-law suite with a fireplace in the bedroom, a den and a bathroom with a soaking tub overlooking the river.
Upstairs, three of the four bedrooms have beamed ceilings and fireplaces. The one used as the master also has an en-suite bathroom with copper fixtures. A full bathroom in the hallway has stone tile and a glass stand-up shower.
OUTDOOR SPACE The property includes a half-mile-long private road lined with pine trees, and 200 feet of frontage and a pier on the Milwaukee River. The heated barn has an upstairs loft space and room to park four cars.
TAXES $17,726
CONTACT Alex Anderson, Suzanne Powers Realty Group, 414-232-7276; powersrealty.com
•
WHAT A duplex condominium with two bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms in a four-story townhouse
HOW MUCH $749,000
SIZE 1,210 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $619
SETTING The home is in Beekman Place, a gated hilltop community of 216 townhouses near the neighborhoods of Adams Morgan, Dupont and Columbia Heights. Completed in 1977, the development is on the western edge of Meridian Hill Park and within walking distance of shops, restaurants and the U Street Metro station.
INDOORS The entrance and both bedrooms are on the upper level. The master bedroom has a pair of large closets with folding doors and a renovated en-suite bathroom. The guest bedroom has access to a hall bathroom with a new vanity. The solid oak floors on this level and below were installed last month.
A stairway descends from the foyer to the main level, where there is a living-and-dining area that has a wood-burning fireplace with a marble surround.
This area connects to a kitchen with stainless steel appliances, stone counters and ample storage space. The kitchen also opens to a hallway that leads to a powder room and a closet containing a washer and dryer.
OUTDOOR SPACE Two sets of French doors in the living room open to a private outdoor patio. The home comes with two permits to park in unassigned spaces in the development’s three parking areas.
TAXES $5,870; the condo fee is $488 a month
CONTACT Catherine Czuba, Czuba Group/Compass, 202-549-6819; compass.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.



Advertisement