
Advertisement
Supported by
Best of Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. What do you think of it? What else are you interested in? Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.
Samantha Bee continues to speak out against workplace harassment, and on Wednesday’s “Full Frontal” she focused on so-called forced arbitration clauses, which often serve to silence women when they accuse co-workers of misconduct.
Bee sat down with the former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson, who sued Roger Ailes in 2016 for sexual harassment and is now pushing Congress to pass legislation limiting the use of forced arbitration. Bee admitted to making fun of Carlson “for 12 straight years at my previous gig” — “The Daily Show” — but she said fighting workplace harassment should be a bipartisan effort.
The other late-night shows focused on President Trump’s State of the Union address, and each host seemed to have his own particular beef with it.
“President Trump gave his first State of the Union address last night. And I have to say, he did all white.” — SETH MEYERS, showing a photograph of white Republican senators and members of the cabinet in the audience at Tuesday’s address
Some were skeptical of the president’s appeals to bipartisanship.
“He offered what he called an open hand to members of both parties, to work together in a bipartisan way. Donald Trump calling for bipartisanship is about as believable as Mike Pence calling for bisexuality.” — JIMMY KIMMEL
“During his speech, Trump called for unity. He said, quote, ‘Tonight I call upon all of us to set aside our differences, to seek out common ground.’ And when he finds that common ground, he plans to build a wall across it that goes all the way to the Pacific Ocean.” — JAMES CORDEN
Bee took issue with the way the president addressed the debate over Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a program that protects from deportation young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.
“My duty — and the sacred duty of every elected official in this chamber — is to defend Americans, to protect their safety, their families, their communities and their right to the American dream,” he said. “Because Americans are Dreamers, too.”
“Oh my God, what a beautiful, proud, thoughtful way to say that you will only help white people,” Bee responded.
“In a new interview, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said that House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi should, quote, ‘smile a lot more often.’ And that Senator Ted Cruz should smile never.” — SETH MEYERS
“Today it was reported that President Trump’s State of the Union address was the most tweeted in history. Yeah, when he was told this, Trump said, ‘Suck it, Abraham Lincoln!’” — CONAN O’BRIEN
On “The Daily Show,” Roy Wood Jr. offered a response to the State of the Union, specifically for the black community.
Stephen Colbert interviewed “Melania Trump” about the state of her union with the president.
Lupita Nyong’o, who stars in the new film “Black Panther,” will talk to Jimmy Kimmel on Thursday.
A. O. Scott, our chief film critic, has watched every movie Woody Allen has made. He’s thoroughly reconsidering his relationship to them now, after Dylan Farrow renewed her allegations that Allen molested her when she was a child.
Advertisement