
Advertisement
Supported by
By Roslyn Sulcas
LONDON — Natalia Osipova, dancing with David Hallberg, with pieces by Alexei Ratmansky and Iván Pérez; a “Quiet Evening” of new work from William Forsythe; a premiere, “Icon,” from Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui and Antony Gormley, with a set made from 3.5 tons of clay; Akram Khan’s final solo performances in “Xenos,” the tale of an Indian soldier in the First World War.
These are some of the highlights of Sadler’s Wells’s ambitious 2018-19 season, which features 20 commissioned works to mark the 20th anniversary of the theater, the sixth to stand on the site since 1683. The season, announced on Thursday by Alistair Spalding, the director the theater, also includes commissions from the Israeli choreographer Sharon Eyal, new works by Julie Cunningham, Alesandra Seutin and Botis Seva, and a theatrical realization, by Honji Wang and Sébastien Ramirez, of Nitin Sawhney’s 2015 album, “Dystopian Dream.”
“We don’t just present dance performances, we make dance happen,” Mr. Spalding said in a statement, adding that the 20 commissions represent “artists at every stage of their career.”
As well as commissions, the theater will present a number of visiting companies, including the Semperoper Ballett from Dresden, Cloud Gate Theater of Taiwan, the Mark Morris Dance Group with “Layla and Majnun,” and Matthew Bourne’s New Adventures, which will present a new version of Mr. Bourne’s wildly popular “Swan Lake.” The theater will also present a new musical, “Carmen La Cubana,” mixing Bizet’s opera score with Cuban music, and directed by Christopher Renshaw.
Mr. Spalding announced ambitious plans to extend the theater’s reach through broadcast and digital projects, including new dance films created in collaboration with both the BBC and Channel 4, and a virtual reality experience created in conjunction with the Alexander Whitley Dance Compan.
He said that plans for Sadler’s Wells’s new outpost, which aims to present midscale work in a 550-seat theater in East London’s Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, were moving ahead. “It will enable the dance house to support regional companies coming to London that would benefit from showing their work in a midscale venue, and to produce new work that could tour outside the capital,” Mr. Spalding said.


Advertisement