
By MARGY ROCHLINFEB. 2, 2018

LOS ANGELES — If Alan Ball has learned anything from his decades in television, it’s that an hourlong television show doesn’t need to be neatly categorized. This Georgia-born writer’s series “Six Feet Under,” after all, was a dark comedy about a diversely dysfunctional funeral home family, while his “True Blood,” based on the Southern Vampire Mysteries novels by Charlaine Harris, combined elements of fantasy, horror, bodice-ripping ardor and — why not? — family, too.
So when Mr. Ball had lunch with Casey Bloys, HBO’s president for programming, to talk about the pilot script for his new series, “Here and Now,” he was unapologetic about its hybrid qualities. “Casey said, ‘Is this a family show or a supernatural show?’” Mr. Ball recalled with a laugh. “And I said, ‘Yes.’”
On the surface, it’s about an idealistic couple — Greg (Tim Robbins) and his lawyer wife, Audrey (Holly Hunter) — who see themselves as “social justice warriors,” as Mr. Ball put it, and adopt three children: Duc (Raymond Lee), from Vietnam; Ashley (Jerrika Hinton), from Liberia; and Ramon (Daniel Zovatto), from Colombia. They’re older siblings to the couple’s biological child, Kristen (Sosie Bacon). But as close-knit as the family is, it teems with secrets, neuroses and trauma. The most talked-about element, though, is likely to be Ramon’s strange visions, which point to a possibly metaphysical connection with his psychiatrist (Peter Macdissi), a family man dealing with his own personal issues. (The show has its premiere on Feb. 11.)
In an interview at his office at Paramount Studios, Mr. Ball, 60, dressed in a plaid shirt and coping with a bad cold, talked about nuanced Muslim characters, midlife crises and dressing up an Oscar. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Advertisement
How did you go from vampire romance in rural Louisiana to a trouble-laden multiracial family in the Pacific Northwest?
I’d done a couple of pilots for HBO that didn’t go. I also have a bunch of movies that I’ve written over the years that nobody seems to want because they aren’t about superheroes or exploding machinery. I’m a person who likes to work. I knew that HBO was looking for a family drama. So I sat down to write one. But I didn’t want it to be just another family drama about a family dealing with what families deal with. Certainly a multiethnic family made it more interesting for me as a writer. It also just seemed like it would give us more interesting stories than sibling rivalry or somebody gets a mammogram. You know, your usual family TV show tropes. [Laughs] The sort of mystical-mysterious element just sort of happened.
Were your story lines affected by the political moment?
I was working with the writers when Donald Trump was elected president, and we started to see the show as a kind of prism through which we could look at all these different characters’ multiethnic, multigenerational viewpoints living in Trump’s America. How do you deal with that? How do you make sense of that?
Advertisement
Why Portland?
Portland has this reputation for being so incredibly progressive — and it is. However, it also has a pretty sketchy history in terms of racism. For a place that’s very progressive, it’s still predominantly Caucasian. So there’s an interesting dichotomy there, because it’s a very progressive town and one of the greatest places to live. At the same time, it isn’t really what it aspires to be.
What research did you do for the characters?
I knew that I wasn’t going to be able to write a lot of the characters in this show from a place of personal experience. So when we — myself and my producing partner, Peter Macdissi — were putting the writers’ room together, we made sure that we had a couple of African-Americans, a guy of Asian descent, a Lebanese Muslim guy and a Palestinian gay guy. We have people who are adoptive parents. Growing up in my white privilege, I have no reason to know these things. So it’s not so much research on my part, it’s having these great writers that I work with who bring their own experiences to the table.
Like Greg, you recently turned 60. Were you as unhappy about the milestone as he appears to be?
Well it’s hard to age, to get older, to realize “Wow, my body isn’t working like it used to.” It’s hard to go, “How many years do I have left?” I’m not sure I have any empirical data to back this up, but I think it’s harder for men than women. I think women are more in touch with their emotions, with the cycle of living. Whereas men are conditioned to believe that we’re invincible and will remain that way forever — and we’re stupid enough to believe that. [Laughs] I feel like I’ve had about five midlife crises. I think the first one was when I was about 35. As someone who struggled with depression and anxiety [my] whole life, I feel like you got to pull yourself out of there, you got to find a way. I wanted Greg to start off at the bottom. I wanted to see him work his way out of that.
You also feature a Muslim family where the parents are comfortable with their child being transgender. Is there a story behind this?
Peter said, “If this is going to be a show about America, we need a Muslim family to be a part of this tapestry.” People are so terrified of, don’t understand, project all kinds of weird stuff onto Muslim characters — especially the way they’ve been depicted in the mainstream media. They’re never complex or nuanced. I did some research and, of course, there are trans Muslim kids. We’re so conditioned to think of Muslim families as so conservative that there’s no room for any kind of out-of-the-box expression for one’s identity — and that’s just not the case.
Your favorite childhood movie — “My Six Loves” — is about a family of adopted children. Are you paying tribute? 
It’s not my favorite movie. It’s the first movie I ever went to see. Debbie Reynolds plays an actress who ends up adopting six adorable hillbilly children. And she realizes: “Oh, I don’t want to be an actress. I want to be a mother. That’s what’s really fulfilling.” [Laughs] One of the running gags is that one of the kids is mesmerized by flushing the toilet, and he keeps doing it. I just remember that was the first time I sat in a big darkened theater, looked up on a screen and saw this story unfold. I haven’t seen it since I was 5 or 6. I’m sure it would be a big letdown from what exists in my memory.
In 2000, you won an Oscar for writing “American Beauty.” I read that you dressed it in a pink fur coat. Because?
[Laughs] My identity, a lot of it, is based in feeling like the outsider. So when I won an Oscar, it was terrifying. When I brought it home, I put it on a shelf, and it looked so pretentious. So I bought a pink fur Barbie coat and put it on [the Oscar] and somehow it made it O.K. for me to have it in my house. But then I got over that and took it off. Now I have a shelf in my office where all the statuaries are. None of them are dressed.
A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2018, on Page AR15 of the New York edition with the headline: Defying Easy Labels Is His Game.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.