
By JESSE McKINLEYFEB. 2, 2018

During the late spring and summer of 2014, Joseph Percoco was a very busy man, frequently coming and going from the Manhattan offices of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, often arriving by 9 a.m. and sometimes staying till sunset.
His presence was often unremarkable; Mr. Percoco was one of the governor’s closest aides and friends.
But during that period, Mr. Percoco was not working for the governor. He had been detached from the office of the governor to work as Mr. Cuomo’s campaign manager, a position that is supposed to be separate from official government work.
Further blurring the lines, when Mr. Percoco entered the building — usually going directly to the 39th floor at 633 Third Avenue, where the governor’s office is — Mr. Cuomo was often there.
Advertisement
A comparison of Mr. Cuomo’s public schedules for 2014 to evidence introduced in Mr. Percoco’s continuing federal corruption trial show at least a dozen instances in which the two overlapped, sometimes for hours at a time, from May to July 2014, and in December 2014, shortly before Mr. Percoco returned to the state payroll.
Advertisement
It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Percoco saw the governor during his visits to Mr. Cuomo’s offices, but his use of the office seemed to potentially violate laws intended to separate government from campaign activity.
Blair Horner, executive director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, said the mere presence of Mr. Percoco in the governor’s Manhattan office was troubling, indicating that Mr. Cuomo’s staff either didn’t know about the rules prohibiting a campaign manager from using a government office, or chose to disregard it.
“It’s pretty crystal clear you’re not supposed to run political campaigns out of the governor’s office,” he said. “And that’s what this looks like.”
The overlaps are frequent: On May 13, 2014, for example, Mr. Percoco arrived at the Manhattan office at 8:23 a.m., taking an elevator directly to the 39th floor, according to the records of his electronic access card submitted on Monday by prosecutors from the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan. And at 9:30 a.m., Mr. Cuomo began a meeting in his office, followed by another at 10:30 a.m., according to his schedule.
And when Mr. Percoco swiped out of the building — at 12:20 p.m. — the governor was also seemingly on the move. At 12:40 p.m., Mr. Cuomo had a Manhattan fund-raiser, an event that Mr. Percoco, as campaign manager, would likely have had a hand in planning.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Two days later, on May 15, Mr. Percoco arrived early again, and stayed till 2:13 p.m. Mr. Cuomo had a 1 p.m. meeting nearby. Two weeks later, Mr. Percoco was back at the office again, staying for an hour and a half during the afternoon while the governor had a 1 p.m. meeting.
Such synchronicities were not uncommon. Of the nearly two dozen days that Mr. Percoco’s card was shown to have swiped into 633 Third Avenue from May 5 to July 14, Mr. Cuomo had meetings in the same office almost every day, though his schedules do not indicate how long they lasted, and do not show Mr. Percoco in attendance.
Mr. Percoco returned to Mr. Cuomo’s staff on Dec. 8, 2014, according to state payroll records. In the week before that, however, he had apparently been a regular presence on the 39th floor again, with records showing he was in the building for three consecutive days, for hours at a time. And on each of those days, the governor had a series of meetings in his office.
Advertisement
Testimony from his former colleagues bears out that Mr. Percoco was often at the Third Avenue office. “I might see him for two or three days in the office and then not see him for a long time, and then he might be there again,” said Linda Lacewell, the governor’s chief of staff, who testified last week.
Circumstantial evidence suggested that Mr. Percoco conducted business while at the Manhattan office; prosecutors presented evidence that from May 1 to Dec. 7, 2014, 837 calls, made over 68 days, were placed from the telephone on the desk that Mr. Percoco used at 633 Third Avenue.
Federal investigators have accused Mr. Percoco of receiving more than $300,000 in bribes in return for official actions on behalf of developers and a power company during his time working for the governor. Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat seeking a third term in the fall, has not been accused of any wrongdoing.
The governor’s office has not commented on the Percoco trial, which is to start again on Monday in Federal District Court in Manhattan with the expected testimony of Todd R. Howe, a former aide of Mr. Cuomo’s and a friend of Mr. Percoco’s. Mr. Howe, who has pleaded guilty to corruption charges, is testifying for the prosecution.
Mr. Cuomo’s office has not commented on the case, and declined again to do so on Friday.
A version of this article appears in print on February 3, 2018, on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Reasons for Visits to Cuomo’s Office Are Blurry.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.