
Advertisement
Supported by
Best of Late Night
By Giovanni Russonello
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. What do you think of it? What else are you interested in? Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.
Jimmy Kimmel expressed ire over House Republicans’ intention to release a secret memo related to the Russia investigation. He pointed out that Representative Devin Nunes, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, has reportedly developed a close relationship with the White House.
“Devin Nunes somehow still is in charge of this Russia investigation in the House, in spite of the fact that he recused himself from the investigation after he got caught sneaking to the White House to share information with the people he was supposed to be investigating. To call Devin Nunes Donald Trump’s lap dog would be an insult to dogs and laps. He’s not a lap dog. He’s more of a retriever. ‘Here boy, go write me a memo to smear the F.B.I.! Good, good boy!’” — JIMMY KIMMEL
Stephen Colbert, a dogged chronicler of the Russia investigation, said that it’s all getting a little too complicated — and nowadays, there are juicier stories.
“Nunes’s memo supposedly paints a picture of how the F.B.I. and the Justice Department abused their authority to obtain a warrant to spy on a former Trump campaign adviser. Ugh, that sounds a little dry. Can’t another porn star come forward about spanking the president? I mean, it’s been over a week, daddy needs his juice.” — STEPHEN COLBERT
President Trump tweeted on Thursday that his State of the Union address had been watched by more Americans than any such speech in American history. As Colbert pointed out, that’s not true.
“Look, it doesn’t matter how many people watched. But what does matter is that the president needs to lie about it — and then somehow get away with it. This is the new world we live in. So let me just say, right now, in advance, congratulations to President Trump on winning the Super Bowl.” — STEPHEN COLBERT
The president said on Thursday that congressional Democrats had not applauded at his State of the Union address when he mentioned the country’s low unemployment rate among African-Americans. Colbert doesn’t think the president can take credit for those statistics in the first place.
“Yeah, you’d think people would applaud — since that’s all because of Obama.” — STEPHEN COLBERT
Seth Meyers and Kelly Clarkson went day drinking — hard.
To celebrate the Super Bowl, Kimmel invited football players to read tweets insulting them.
We’ll be back here on Tuesday for another week of shows.
February is Black History Month. Our film critics have chosen 28 great films from within and outside the greater black film canon.
Advertisement