
Advertisement
Supported by
By Andrew R. Chow
“This Is Us” gears up for an emotional episode after the Super Bowl, which features a halftime show from Justin Timberlake. 
THIS IS US 10:15 p.m., or after the Super Bowl, on NBC. This coveted time slot has produced some memorable television, from the pilot of “The Wonder Years” to the most-watched episode of “Grey’s Anatomy” to Prince’s mesmerizing cameo on “New Girl.” “This Is Us” will try to outdo all of those on Sunday, when it reveals at long last how Jack Pearson died, on the day of the 1998 Super Bowl. (“All of your questions will be answered,” a promo assures.) The previous episode ended as a Crockpot burst into flames in the family’s kitchen; this new episode will show how Jack died while Rebecca, Kate and Randall survived. In the present, Randall hosts his own Super Bowl party to honor his father’s legacy. It will probably get dusty in there.
KITTEN BOWL Noon on Hallmark Channel. They’re good cats.
PUPPY BOWL 3 p.m. on Animal Planet. They’re good dogs.
SUPER BOWL LII NBC on 6 p.m. Oh yeah, the game! When the New England Patriots and the Philadelphia Eagles kick off, Tom Brady will become the oldest quarterback to play in a Super Bowl. A fiesty Eagles defensive line led by Brandon Graham will do its best to slow him. The halftime show features Justin Timberlake performing on a Super Bowl stage for the first time since the “wardrobe malfunction” with Janet Jackson in 2004. (“There’s little doubt that his dance moves will be perfect and his small but supple voice will stay suave all the way through his 12 minutes. But as the world watches, he could do some small measure of karmic payback to Ms. Jackson,” wrote Jon Pareles in an NYT critic’s notebook.) He’ll probably slip in a song or two from his new album, “Man of the Woods,” and return to enduring early 2000s hits like “Cry Me a River” and “What Goes Around … Comes Around.” The Pennsylvania native Pink will sing the national anthem.
CRASHING 10:30 p.m. on HBO. The second season of the comedian Pete Holmes’s semi-autobiographical show has him coping with a divorce, sleeping on his friend’s couches and working at Cold Stone Creamery. Bill Burr, Artie Lange and other comedians play versions of themselves to give Pete guidance or a place to stay; the show veers between thoughtful contemplation of morals and debaucherous one-night stands.
ABSENTIA on Amazon Prime. While on the hunt for a serial killer who slices off his victim’s eyebrows, the F.B.I. agent Emily Byrne (Stana Katic) goes missing and is presumed dead. Six years later, she’s found alive and scarred in a tank in the woods, with no recollection of her time in captivity. She returns to society to find that her husband has remarried and her son doesn’t recognize her. Worst of all, another victim is found. The series traces her efforts to reassimilate, to remember what happened and to uncover if she’s also a suspect in the investigation.
Advertisement