
Advertisement
Supported by
By Dave Itzkoff
Get attached to any New York institution and you will eventually see it replaced by something more contemporary, whether it’s the 7-Eleven that takes over the space of your favorite corner bodega or a new set of “Saturday Night Live” cast members who get handed the reins of its long-running parody of “Fox & Friends.”
On this week’s episode, hosted by Natalie Portman and featuring the musical guest Dua Lipa, it fell to the “S.N.L.” performers Alex Moffat, Heidi Gardner and Beck Bennett to play chipper, clueless incarnations of the Fox News morning hosts Steve Doocy, Ainsley Earhardt and Brian Kilmeade. If this moment briefly made some longtime “S.N.L.” viewers wistful for the days when Taran Killam, Vanessa Bayer (as Gretchen Carlson) and Bobby Moynihan handled these duties, at least the rest of the show offered cameos from other “S.N.L.” alums to help us deal with the transition.
The “Fox & Friends” parody that opened the show started with Gardner saying hello to viewers, “whether you’re fixing your breakfast or getting dressed for work or laying in the Lincoln Bedroom, tweeting with an Egg McMuffin on your chest.”
There were quick interviews with the Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan (Chris Redd) and the White House communications director, Hope Hicks (Cecily Strong), who explained that at her place of work, “There are no real jobs here, you know? Every day feels like when a group of strangers suddenly work together to push a beached whale back into the sea.”
But the moment that most excited the hosts was a surprise phone call from a special guest: President Trump (Alec Baldwin), who said he was “doing my P90X morning exercises right now.” However, as viewers could see, he was clearly lying down in the Lincoln Bedroom and tweeting with an Egg McMuffin on his chest.
Gardner congratulated Baldwin on the recent State of the Union address, gushing, “Your speech was maybe the best speech in the history of this country.”
Baldwin replied, “You know a lot of people are saying, including Paul Ryan, that it was better than Martin Luther King’s ‘I Dream of Jeannie’ speech.”
[ Looking for something else to watch this weekend? Here are the 100 best movies on Netflix. ]
In other memorable moments from this episode:
“Saturday Night Live” delved more deeply into history — America’s and its own — in a pre-Super Bowl sketch set at the Second Continental Congress in 1775 and featuring the former “S.N.L.” cast members Rachel Dratch and Tina Fey.
Informed that the colonists have just won the Battle of Bunker Hill, a delegate played by Beck Bennett sighed, “Now we have to hear the boasting of the Patriots of New England.” Enter a rowdy contingent of braggadocious colonial types, including Portman, Dratch and Moffat, who recounted the victory. “We get pushed back way behind our line, like 40 yards,” he said in a thick New England accent. “But our guy, Captain Thomas Brady, he’s got like the best cannon and we come back like we always do.”
Not to be outdone, Fey and the cast members Kenan Thompson and Mikey Day strode into the room as the Philadelphia delegation, vowing that they too had victory in their sights. “So grease up them poles ’cause Philly’s gonna win and then one of these guys is going to punch a police horse,” Fey said.
Explaining why they identified themselves with Eagles — the team that will face the New England Patriots at the Super Bowl on Sunday — Fey said, “We Philadelphians are swift, we are deadly, and our eyes are all a little too close together.”
Recapping the controversy surrounding a partisan memo released by House Republicans, the “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost said:
This memo came from 40-year-old virgin Devin Nunes, who is chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. I’ve got to say, I don’t really trust this guy to untangle a vast conspiracy. I wouldn’t really trust him to untangle a pair of headphones. Now I’m trying to put myself in his shoes, and it’s pretty easy because his shoes are Velcro. But I don’t really understand how any of this is important, so I’m just going to treat this memo like every other memo I’ve received at work and completely ignore it. At this point, if you actually want to get my attention, the bar is set at ‘Porn star spanks president with magazine.’ Also, this is a four-page memo that just cherry-picks information from a FISA document that’s like 50 or 60 pages long. It’s like when you see a blurb for ‘Transformers 5,’ and it says, ‘It blew my mind,’ when the full quote is, ‘It blew my mind that God allowed this.’”
Mr. Jost’s co-anchor, Michael Che, continued: “First of all, you know damn well Donald Trump didn’t read this memo. It’s four pages long. And the only time Donald Trump reads four pages in a row is when he’s ordering breakfast.”
Portman reprised her role as Jacqueline Kennedy (as seen in Pablo Larraín’s 2016 film “Jackie”) in a sketch where she offers advice to Melania Trump (Cecily Strong), who is hesitating about attending the State of the Union. Speaking in broken English, Strong asked, “How can I be good first lady when Donald make it so hard?”
Portman replied, “All first ladies have a platform. Yours is bullying, mine was little hats. Your approval rating is through the roof.”
Strong answered, “Yes, yes, people like me because they’re like, ‘That lady look how I feel.’”
Stick around for additional appearances from the former first ladies Hillary Clinton (Kate McKinnon), Michelle Obama (Leslie Jones) and, for some reason, an ax-wielding Martha Washington (Aidy Bryant).
In a deskside segment on “Weekend Update,” Strong and McKinnon played the French actresses Catherine Deneuve and Brigitte Bardot, trying to apologize for any misunderstandings after their denunciation of the #MeToo movement. At least, Strong was trying to explain herself, while the more eccentric McKinnon dug herself into deeper and deeper holes.
Strong explained, “It’s important in France to question, to debate, to challenge popular opinion. Me, I don’t want romance to die. But me, if I went too far or hurt any woman, that was absolutely not my intention.”
McKinnon added, “And me, I stand by everything I have said. And I will double down. Free Harvey Weinstein!”
Revisiting a viral segment she starred in during her last “S.N.L.” appearance 12 years ago, Portman once again cast stereotypes aside and played herself as a foul-mouthed and violent rapper. There’s very little we can safely reproduce here from her 2018 update on this routine, but we will tell you it features her as a gun-wielding Queen Amidala from “Star Wars,” and there’s a cameo from the “S.N.L.” alum Andy Samberg. (He and his collaborators in the Lonely Island helped make the original video.)



Advertisement