

                Tech Tip            
By                     
                                    J. D. BIERSDORFER
                            
                FEB. 6, 2018
    
Q. I have one app on my fourth-generation Apple TV that freezes every once in a while, and the only way I can get out of it is to unplug the whole Apple TV box. Is there an easier way to get back to the home screen?
A. As with apps on Apple’s Mac computers and iOS devices, you can force-quit a misbehaving tvOS program without having to unplug anything. The next time an app freezes, quickly press the TV button twice on the Apple TV remote. When you do, the Apple TV goes into the app-switching mode used by iOS devices, where you see a series of application preview windows on the screen.
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
If the misbehaving app is not already selected, use the touch pad on the Apple TV remote to swipe left or right until you land on the app you want to close. With the app’s preview window selected, swipe up on the remote’s touch pad to forcibly close the program.
Restarting the Apple TV may help stop the forcibly closed app from freezing again. You can restart it from the remote by holding down the TV and Menu buttons until you see the light on the front of the box flash. Alternatively, use the remote to navigate to the Settings app to System and select Restart. (While you are in the System settings, you can also check for updates to the Apple TV’s software or turn on automatic updates.)
The remote can be used to rearrange apps or delete them as well. To move an app, select its icon and press down on the remote’s touch pad. When the icon begins to wiggle, swipe across the touch pad until you get to the spot you want. Press the touch pad again to release the icon. To delete a wiggling app, press the Play/Pause button and choose Delete.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
A version of this article appears in print on February 8, 2018, on Page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: How to Unstick A Frozen Apple TV.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »