
By ANDREW R. CHOWFEB. 8, 2018

The 2018 Winter Olympics begin in Pyeongchang with figure skating and skiing. Justin Timberlake and Dua Lipa perform at the Brit Awards.
2018 WINTER OLYMPICS 8 p.m. on NBC. There’s been plenty of drama outside the stadium walls leading up to the Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, from a rule-bending North Korean ferry trip to a Norovirus outbreak. On Thursday, the focus will be on the Games themselves, as NBC broadcasts men’s and pairs’ figure skating and freestyle skiing. The 18-year-old figure skater Nathan Chen, who won the United States championships last month, hopes to land the gold. NBCSN will broadcast additional coverage, including curling and men’s luge, also starting at 8.
GREY’S ANATOMY 8 p.m. on ABC. It’s Shonda Night in America. On “Grey’s,” April is in put in charge of a new surgical innovation contest. On SCANDAL at 9, Olivia Pope desperately tries to halt Mellie’s plans to name Jake as her new chief of staff. And on HOW TO GET AWAY WITH MURDER, Annalise and her team continue to build her class-action lawsuit. (It remains to be seen whether Kobe Bryant will make an appearance this week.)
HAPPY ENDING WITH NANDO VILA 10 p.m. on Fusion. The stock-market decline this week dented many bank accounts, but it came at an opportune time for Nando Vila. The first episode of his new political sketch comedy series is titled “Killed by Capital”; it uses a film noir lens to investigate capitalism and its effect on every facet of American life.
THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY (1967) on Amazon Prime and Hulu. Clint Eastwood’s “The 15:17 to Paris” comes to theaters on Friday. But before he ever got in the director’s chair (or for that matter, talked to a chair), he left his mark on American cinema as the fearsome Man With No Name. Mr. Eastwood mugs and growls through Sergio Leone’s spaghetti western, which arrived on Amazon Prime this month. It depicts a series of brutal skirmishes during the Civil War, as three gunslingers compete to unearth a stash of Confederate gold. Leone’s filmmaking, depicting epic battles and an indelible three-way standoff, would forge a template for future action directors, while Ennio Morricone’s brooding score remains unforgettable.
WEINER (2016) on Hulu. When Anthony Weiner agreed to be the subject of a documentary in 2013, he envisioned it depicting his rise to becoming New York City’s next mayor. Instead it captured his self-immolation. Its directors — Josh Kriegman, a former Weiner aide, and Elyse Steinberg — had front-row seats as revelations about Mr. Weiner’s sexting habits derailed both his campaign and his marriage to Huma Abedin. The documentary spends much of its time on shocked faces behind closed doors, as campaign aides struggle to quell the media storm. In his Times review, Stephen Holden called the documentary “infuriating and depressing but rivetingly watchable.”
An earlier version of this article misstated the air time for “Happy Ending With Nando Vila” on Fusion. It is 10 p.m., not 9.
A version of this schedule appears in print on February 8, 2018, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Thursday.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.