
By GIA KOURLASFEB. 8, 2018

Our guide to dance performances.
SOLEDAD BARRIO AND NOCHE FLAMENCA at the Joyce Theater (Feb. 13-25). Led by Martín Santangelo and his dancer-wife, the electrifying Soledad Barrio, this flamenco company returns to the Joyce with “Íntimo,” a program that delves deep into relationships. The centerpiece is “La Ronde,” Mr. Santangelo’s series of duets inspired by the structure of Max Ophüls’s 1950 film. The music, as usual, is live, and the performers include the Andalusian flamenco dancer Juan Ogalla and, of course, Ms. Barrio. It wouldn’t be Noche Flamenca without her.212-242-0800, joyce.org
ICE THEATER OF NEW YORK at National Sawdust (Feb. 9, 7 p.m.). Have you ever experienced synthetic ice? What about the pairing of Schubert’s song cycle “Die Winterreise” with synthetic ice? Here’s your chance: National Sawdust will be transformed into a skating rink for the one-night-only performance of “WinterICE,” a collaboration between the vocalist and composer Theo Bleckmann and the pianist Uri Caine with Ice Theater of New York. In it, the musicians present a reimagined version of “Die Winterreise” while figure skaters from the company, led by its artistic director, Moira North, glide to it.646-779-8455, nationalsawdust.org
‘I LOVE BUTOH’ at Triskelion Arts (Feb. 14, 8 p.m.). This presentation by Triskelion Arts, in association with Vangeline Theater and the New York Butoh Institute, features performances by the Japanese dancer Mari Osanai (“Boundary”) and the New York contemporary dancer and choreographer Madelyn Sher (“I Love You I Miss My Friend and the Music Is Beautiful”). Along with a serving of Butoh, the dance form that emerged in Japan after World War II, this program — in honor of Valentine’s Day — offers a chocolate tasting.718-389-3473, triskelionarts.org/i-love-butoh
NEW YORK CITY BALLET at the David H. Koch Theater (through March 4). This weekend features repeats of mixed bills — the all-George Balanchine program is especially stellar — but Peter Martins’s full-length ballet “Romeo + Juliet” returns on Feb. 13 with a new male lead on opening night. As Romeo, Harrison Coll will dance opposite Sterling Hyltin’s Juliet, with Joaquin De Luz as Tybalt, Daniel Ulbricht as Mercutio and Joseph Gordon as Benvolio. Other pairings include Tiler Peck with Zachary Catazaro and Lauren Lovette with Chase Finlay. Stay tuned for more debuts.212-496-0600, nycballet.com
NEW YORK THEATER BALLET at Florence Gould Hall (Feb. 9-11, various times). Diana Byer’s New York Theater Ballet presents two programs this weekend. Four dances fill out its promising REP program: Gemma Bond’s “Optimists,” David Gordon’s “Beethoven/1999,” Pam Tanowitz’s “Double Andante” and Antony Tudor’s “Dark Elegies.” But there’s an option for the little ones too. The one-hour “Mother Goose,” choreographed by Keith Michael for children ages 3 and up, brings the stories and characters to whimsical dancing life.212-355-6160, nytb.org
A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2018, on Page C25 of the New York edition with the headline: Dance.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »