
Advertisement
Supported by
RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars
By Isaac Oliver
Oh, thank God. Last week’s episode was a petulant mess — blame game champ Thorgy Thor was eliminated, while Milk, the stepchild you meet after the wedding, threw a tantrum over merely being safe. But this week’s contest, with a boisterous main challenge and wig-filled runway, delighted.
“Another day in the workroom: You get up, you walk in, you step over the body of a dead friend and you just move along,” Trixie Mattel said in a confessional. If only there was a prize for how good Trixie is at confessionals — oh right, there is: her own show on Viceland. But in competition she recedes, and she knows it. “I never had my star moment,” she told BeBe Zahara Benet later in the episode. “This time I have to change that.”
Sadly she’ll have to wait another week, because this week all flights were rerouted — to Kennedy. After not quite registering in the first two episodes, Kennedy Davenport leaped to the foreground last night and stayed there the whole episode. In minute one, she disapproved of the penis Thorgy drew on the workroom mirror in parting and clashed with Milk.
“She’s a clown and you’re not,” Milk said, of Thorgy. “Well, you look like a clown right now.” (I hate to concede anything to Milk, but Kennedy, who’d yet again glued a bunch of mirrorball pieces to her face, looked like a gecko in a diamond mine.)
Milk, who’s developed more new American drama than the Steppenwolf Theater Company, leaned in, adding: “I would’ve chosen Thorgy to stay.” This further wounded Kennedy, who’d also been up for elimination.
This episode’s challenge was to portray a contestant on “The Bitchelor,” a parody of the unspeakable ABC hit. With assigned roles and a series of unscripted scenes, the queens’ acting and improvisation skills were put to the test — muscles many were eager to flex, except for Chi Chi DeVayne. “I don’t consider myself to be a comedian and an actress and all that,” she said. “I’m getting so intimidated.”
Shangela, her partner in the challenge, went full Stella Adler: “How are you going to play your character? How’s she going to talk, how’s she going to act?”
The actor Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman, whose smile I’d take a midwinter shuttle bus for, guested as the Bachelor, sitting down with the queens in teamed pairs. BeBe started out strong as the Virgin, a princess direct from Africa who kept kneeling at his feet but ran out of steam fast. Trixie, as the Fake Bitch, wrested a couple moments from Milk, who, as the Psycho Stalker, babbled and shrieked over her. (“Don’t talk over each other,” Michelle Visage had cautioned beforehand.) Chi Chi and Shangela, as a polyamorous lesbian couple, were unspecific and out to sea. And as the Needy Girl, Aja whined and moaned incessantly — Take it from me: neediness is often silent, and patient.
I rolled my eyes when BenDeLaCreme was assigned the Cougar, but her boozy matron, spilling a Cosmo and sliding along the side of her limo toward Mr. Bowyer-Chapman with her skirt hiked up and crotch pixelated, made me howl. Even funnier was Kennedy’s raunchy Party Girl, who also had trouble getting out of the limo, and hid bottle service in her padding. “We gonna make a toast to love,” she said as Mr. Bowyer-Chapman disrobed for a massage by the pool, and the camera swooped in for a thirsty “Planet Earth” pan of his torso. Kennedy slathered him in lotion, went in for a sloppy kiss, and, before passing out drunk, added, “I’m a man.” (This tour de force should come as no surprise; her turn as Little Richard won her Season 7’s Snatch Game.)
The runway challenge, Wigs on Wigs on Wigs, was inspired by the Season 5 runner-up Roxxxy Andrews’s reveal of a second wig during a lip-sync. The queens scrambled to get ready, gluing down their eyebrows and predicting the bottom three. How fun, with everyone in earshot! Tell me when you’re tired of this, but on the show with the amateur British bakers, if someone has extra time — say they’ve gotten their bread dough in the proving drawer early, or their 3-D gingerbread story didn’t collapse — they’ll help other bakers, glaze things, get things from the fridge for them.
On the runway, BeBe, Shangela and Trixie were safe. In the bottom: Aja, whose three-wigged Kawaii look was the best of the night but didn’t redeem her failed Needy Girl performance; mod-clad Milk, deservedly dragged for her one-note Psycho (if only they’d seen the workroom footage); and Chi Chi, lovely on the runway but overshadowed in the challenge. “I’m so sorry,” Chi Chi tearfully told the judges, admitting the other queens’ skills made her question her worth.
“Chi Chi, you’re worth it,” the guest judge and pop-up life coach Constance Zimmer said.
The top two? BenDeLaCreme, for the third week in a row, and Kennedy, who announced backstage that she would forgo one-on-one appeals and decide who to eliminate on her own terms. BenDeLaCreme still kept office hours, though. Aja stopped by, knowing full well she wasn’t going home — three wigs. Chi Chi shuffled over resignedly, as did Milk, who whispered, “The judges actually want me to continue in this.” (What a choice: Chi Chi, a box of puppies, and Milk, a parking ticket.)
A steady, inhabited lip-sync to Lorde’s “Green Light” won Kennedy the episode, and she eliminated Milk, who proved you can go big and go home.
Will Chi Chi conquer her self-doubt? Will Trixie break out from the pack? Would Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman like to meet a truly needy girl? Until next week.
Advertisement