
Advertisement
Supported by
By Victor Mather
Right Now
Dutchwoman Ireen Wust wins the women’s 1,500 meter speed skating.
The powerful Dutch team swept the first women’s speed skating event, and looked like it might do it again in the 1,500 meters. But in the last pairing of the day, Miho Takagi of Japan broke up the top three and grabbed a silver medal behind Ireen Wust of the Netherlands. The Dutch also finished third and fourth.
Wust had won the silver in the 3,000 meters, upset by a less heralded teammate, Carlijn Achtereekte.  But there was no upset on Monday.
Mikael Kingsbury has been the world’s dominant moguls skiier for six years. But he was frustrated at the Olympics four years ago, losing to his now retired countryman, Alexandre Bilodeau. With six straight World Cup titles, the Olympic gold was all that was missing from his mantlepiece.
Kingsbury left no doubt, putting up the top score in the final for speed, turns and aerial tricks.
The gold medal game in the new mixed doubles curling event will pit Canada against Switzerland on Tuesday.  Canada beat Norway, 8-4, and Switzerland beat Russia, 7-5, in the semifinals.
It hardly seems fair to spot the German Laura Dahlmeier a 24-second lead. But based on her victory in the  sprint event, that’s the head start she got in Monday’s pursuit. For Dahlmeier to lose the gold medal, she would need to shoot or ski quite badly: She did not. 
Dahlmeier missed just once and cruised to an easy second gold medal of the Games. Despite four misses, Anastasiya Kuzmina of Slovakia skied strongly to win the silver medal.
On the men’s side, a 22-second handicap was not enough to stop Martin Fourcade of France from winning his third career gold medal.
Jamie Anderson was in the best position a snowboarder could be in: lining up for her second slopestyle run with the gold medal already clinched.
On an afternoon when high winds played havoc with nearly every rider’s runs, Anderson fell too. But it didn’t matter. 
Her outstanding first run was good enough for the gold, her second straight in the event. Laurie Blouin of Canada was second, and Enni Rukajarvi of Finland third.
“My attitude with contests and with even training or shredding on any given day is learning to adapt to the weather and just doing your best in any given conditions,” Anderson said.
It completed a slopestyle sweep for the United States: Red Gerard had won the men’s event the day before.
Chloe Kim had the top score of the both the first and second runs of halfpipe snowboard qualifying, a 91.50 and a 95.50. The top 12 advanced to Tuesday’s final. 
Of her second run, she said: “I don’t know even know what I did. I did a method, front seven, cab seven, front nine, mctwist, crippler seven.”
She continued: “That second run felt really good; very perfect. I’ve been really trying to clean up all the little details and I think I did just that so I’m really excited.”
Canada employed its top skaters and breezed to a gold medal in the team figure skating finals. Russia (silver) and the U.S. (bronze), kept their big names out of the free skate, but Mirai Nagasu did not disappoint: she became the first American woman to land a triple axel in Olympic competition. Go here for our coverage.
Felix Loch of Germany lost a bid for his third straight men’s luge gold medal when he hit the wall on his fourth and final run. That gave the gold to David Gleirscher of Austria and opened the door for the American Chris Mazdzer to win a surprise silver medal.
Sven Kramer of the Netherlands won his third straight men’s 5,000-meter speedskating gold medal. Kramer poured it on over the second half of the race to beat the rest of the field by nearly two seconds.
The U.S. women’s hockey team eked out a 3-1 win over a gritty Finland team Sunday at Kwandong Hockey Center.  The Americans, who are favored to battle Canada for the gold medal, had some nervous moments and were down, 1-0, at the end of the first period. But Monique Lamoureux-Morando evened the score near the midway point of the second period, and Kendall Coyne scored the game-winner two and a half minutes later on a power play. Dani Cameranesi added an empty-netter with 13 seconds to play. — MATTHEW FUTTERMAN
Red Gerard fell on his first two runs, but only the best run counts, and his third was about as good as it could be. He won the snowboarding slopestyle men’s gold medal, with Max Parrot and Mark McMorris of Canada second and third.  Read more about Gerard’s run here.
Norway dominated the men’s skiathlon, taking all three medals, with Simen Krueger the gold medalist. Krueger crashed with other skiers just after the start and fell but worked his way back up through the pack. 
Victor Mather is a general assignment sports reporter and editor.  
Advertisement