

                Shopping Guide            
By                     
                                    TIM McKEOUGH
                            
                FEB. 12, 2018
    
When you need a little extra storage or display space, a weighty bookcase can sometimes be overkill. A wall-mounted shelf might do just as well, if all you want is a place to show off small accessories or stash a few novels — and it won’t hog floor space or overwhelm a room.
“Wall-mounted shelves give the impression of lightness and floating in space,” said the New York-based interior designer Amy Lau. “They take up less visual space, because they don’t have backs.”
Where do shelves like this work best? In the bedroom or a home office, to display personal collections, she suggested, or in the kitchen, to hold decorative dishes. In a powder room, you might use them as a place to put candles and perfume.
“You can even use one as a desk,” Ms. Lau said, if the shelf is the right size and mounted at the proper height.
Advertisement
And because they come in a wide range of shapes and sizes, she pointed out, some floating shelves offer as much sculptural appeal as the objects they are intended to hold: “Whether it’s slim, shiny, powder-coated or chunky, there are so many unique options.”
Advertisement
• Will your wall support a loaded shelf? Ensuring that there are studs at the desired points of attachment, or blocking behind the drywall, is critical to preventing shelf sag and collapse, Ms. Lau said.
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
• How many do you need? “If you’re looking at a larger system, consider the depth and height of the shelves,” Ms. Lau said, “and whether they can be moved around.”
• Are some materials better than others? Not necessarily — and sometimes the unexpected is the best choice: “I’ve seen shelves made out of driftwood, Lucite, thick ceramic and cement,” Ms. Lau said.
Concrete shelf with hidden mounting hardware | From $99 at Lyon Beton: 011-33-474-079-791 or us.lyon-beton.com
____
Zigzagging powder-coated wire-and-wood unit by Bashko Trybek for La Chance | From $985 at A+R: 800-913-0071 or aplusrstore.com
____
Powder-coated metal shelf with beechwood planter by Erika Kovesdi | $40 at Umbra: 800-387-5122 or umbra.com
____
Perforated metal shelf, for use alone or in multiples, by Mathieu Matégot for Gubi | About $400 at Horne: 877-404-6763 or shophorne.com
____
Plastic shelves in various sizes and colors by Ronan and Erwan Bouroullec | From $80 each at Vitra: 212-463-5750 or vitra.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2018, on Page RE4 of the New York edition with the headline: There’s Room to Grow Even Without a Floor.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »