
By VANESSA FRIEDMANFEB. 16, 2018

Each week, the Open Thread newsletter will offer a look from across The New York Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman as your personal shopper. The latest newsletter appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here.
Hello and happy first day of London Fashion Week! Valentine’s was so last Wednesday. We are already on to city number two in the collections carousel.
At least the general “we”; I am taking a much-needed recovery weekend from New York before heading to Milan on Monday (pacing is a big deal during the shows — I will be away in fashion land from Feb. 19 to March 7).
My colleague Matthew Schneier has gone to the U.K. with the rest of the Times’s team and will be reporting back starting on Sunday. I am looking forward to hearing about Christopher Bailey’s last Burberry show.
Advertisement
As for New York, it was a pretty quiet week — the quietest one I remember. What do you need to know?
Advertisement
The 1980s are coming back, at least according to Tom Ford and Marc Jacobs. This did not fill my heart with joy.
Raf Simons trucked 50,000 gallons of popcorn to the old American Stock Exchange building for his Calvin Klein show, and it was most entertaining, even if a lot of guests started complaining about the dry cleaning bills, and there was some social media protest about wasted food.
Politics and position-taking were largely avoided, except by Kerby Jean-Raymond in a moving Pyer Moss show that was a subtle ode to the black cowboy. Remember his name; he’s one of the most interesting of the NewGen designers in the city.
People often ask me how I get ready for fashion month, and the truth is I don’t, really. I wear the same thing almost every season, so packing is easy now, and I stay in the same hotels, so I know where the closest pharmacy and grocery stores are anyway, in case I have an emergency.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
For me, the most important prep is really just brain rest. Seven days of skirts can start to blend together in a big blob of ennui.
So I’ll go to as many trapeze classes I can fit in, since once I get on the plane to Milan all exercise goes out the window, and I’ll spend the weekend with my family getting my Olympic fix, especially of Johnny Weir, who is throwing some serious fashion shade (I actually think his outfits were more interesting than a lot of the shows in New York). I try, in other words, to remind myself of the context in which all these clothes function.
To that end, check out these “Black Panther” stories, check in with Leslie Jones’s Olympic fashion criticism, and spend 48 hours with the designer Prabal Gurung to see what Fashion Week is like from the other side. Talk to you from Milan!
Every week on Open Thread, Vanessa will answer a reader’s fashion-related question, which you can send to her anytime via email or Twitter. Questions are edited and condensed.
Advertisement
Q: Is there such a thing as a fashionable puffer coat? I need something light and warm for the chilly Los Angeles nights and for when I spend five weeks in N.Y. in the fall. I wear a lot of sweaters that come down to my mid thighs. I am a 70-year-old artist and I am looking for something interesting (but no belts, please!) – Eileen, Santa Monica
A: Take it from this similarly belt-adverse person: yes, absolutely. In fact, fashion has developed something of a thing for puffers. I literally just saw a puffer wrap on the Michael Kors runway, and some pretty great shearling trimmed puffers at Tory Burch.
Those won’t be in stores til August though, so for some more immediate gratification, I asked T’s style director, Malina Joseph Gilchrist, what she would recommend. Here’s what she said: “Look at Moncler and Marques’ Almeida for more fashionable options. Moncler cuts for women where the waist is taken in and gives a more ‘fashionable’ shape, sans belt. Marques’ Almeida has been incorporating puffer coats on the runway. Other good options are Norma Kamali’s sleeping bag jacket, which was stylish in the ‘80s and is still good today. Or try Uniqlo, and opt for their knee-length quilted thinner down jacket.”
I’d also add another Italian brand that is less expensive than Moncler (though not cheap), as an option. I was standing outside a show the other day and chatting to another critic when I started admiring her puffer — silky, with a wide turtle neck à la Audrey Hepburn — and asked where it was from: Herno was the answer. You learn a lot waiting for a show to start. — VANESSA FRIEDMAN
Like what you see here? Submit any feedback to openthread@nytimes.com.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.