
Advertisement
Supported by
By Sara Aridi
A brief love affair turns into a day of wonder in “Medicine for Melancholy.” And the comic horror film “Tragedy Girls” arrives on Hulu. 
MEDICINE FOR MELANCHOLY (2008) on iTunes, Amazon, and Mubi. As the Oscars draw closer, revisit last year’s star winner with this debut feature by Barry Jenkins, the director of “Moonlight.” The low-budget indie begins the day after a one-night stand between Micah (Wyatt Cenac) and Jo’ (Tracey Heggins), twentysomething San Franciscans who, at the outset, don’t even know each other’s names. Rather than go their separate ways, they explore the city — somewhat of a third main character in this romance — while discussing gentrification, race and class. In his review, A.O. Scott designated the film a critic’s pick and wrote, “There are no simple answers or obvious conclusions to be gleaned from this movie, which, like its soundtrack, is both sad and vibrant, meandering and formally sure-footed.”
THE PORTUGUESE KID on BroadwayHD. While this romantic comedy by the director John Patrick Shanley (“Moonstruck,” “Doubt”) may lack in plot, it boasts a strong, playful cast. Sherie Rene Scott plays Atalanta, a flirtatious widow with several marriages behind her. Jason Alexander plays her mediocre lawyer and longtime friend, Barry. Both are attached to younger lovers (Pico Alexander and Aimee Carrero), but that doesn’t stop the strong-headed Atalanta from trying to seduce Barry.
TRAGEDY GIRLS (2017) on Hulu. What’s worse than social-media-obsessed, narcissistic teenagers? Social-media-obsessed, narcissistic teenagers who kill. This comedy horror by Tyler MacIntyre stars Brianna Hildebrand as Sadie and Alexandra Shipp as McKayla, morbid best friends who run a true-crime blog following their small town’s local killer. Hungry for more content and a larger following, the pair secretly go on a rampage of their own.
PLANET EARTH: BLUE PLANET II 9 p.m. on BBC America. The producers of this nature series spent more than 6,000 hours diving underwater for shots of the ocean’s most astonishing creatures. This episode delves into majestic green seas replete with kelp forests, mangroves and blooms of algae. Not to mention adorable, frightening and just plain weird marine species.
ED GORDON: AM I BLACK ENOUGH? 12 p.m. on Bounce TV. In this one-hour special, the host Ed Gordon asks, “Who or what makes you authentically black?” Celebrities and influencers, including Samuel L. Jackson, Anthony Anderson and Misty Copeland, share their answers.
OCEANS OF CRIME 8 p.m. on CNBC. This documentary investigates the lawlessness in   the seafood industry, from human trafficking and torture to illegal fishing that is threatening ecosystems and fishing communities alike. The report says that roughly a quarter of the seafood imported into the United States is illegal. Activists, aid workers and federal agents make sense of the issue.
Advertisement