
Advertisement
Supported by
Ask Real Estate
By Ronda Kaysen
Q.I live in an Art Deco condo tower with terraces tiered like a wedding cake. Recently, two wooden chairs and a large dining table fell from a terrace above, tumbling onto a common area, and then down to my private terrace, damaging patio tiles and a neighbor’s glass railing and furniture. The building fixed my broken tiles and told me which floor the items fell from, but has been otherwise unresponsive. I don’t want to die in a freak accident. Do I have any recourse? Help! 
A. Items much smaller than a dining table have fallen from buildings, seriously injuring or killing New Yorkers on the street. Fortunately, in this case, your terrace broke the fall, and no one was harmed. But such an incident should not happen again.
Your building should do what it can to prevent a repeat performance. “Your condo’s board of managers needs to step up and take ownership of this situation,” said Eric D. Sherman, a real estate lawyer and a partner at the Manhattan law firm Pryor Cashman.
Your board could adopt a house rule, limiting the size and weight of patio furniture, or requiring residents to anchor large objects to the floor, Mr. Sherman said. It could even impose fines for those who don’t comply. Such new rules would likely require a simple majority vote of board members.
Write a letter to the board and the managing agent, explaining the events that transpired and expressing your concerns that the board has not taken steps to prevent another incident. Ask the neighbor whose railing was damaged to sign the letter, too. You could also report the condition to 311, or 911, if it’s an emergency.
The board might still, however, take a measured stance. Reluctant to police residents’ furniture, it may simply circulate a letter reminding residents to bring heavy objects inside ahead of storms. “The furniture is like your living room couch,” said Phyllis H. Weisberg, a chairwoman of the cooperative and condominium law practice at Montgomery McCracken Walker & Rhoads. “The board is not going to want to get involved.”
Another option: Figure out whose furniture went flying and contact the neighbor, ideally in person. “Take it up directly with the neighbor,” Ms. Weisberg said, and maybe ask, “Why are you not doing something to secure it?”
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.


Advertisement