

                Here and Now            
By                     
                                    JUDY BERMAN
                            
                FEB. 18, 2018
    
Greg Boatwright is heading for a nervous breakdown. If that wasn’t obvious after the series premiere last week, in which his favorite call girl gave him an X-rated 60th birthday present and he regaled his party guests with a speech disavowing his life’s work, it certainly is now. Midway through this week’s episode, Greg orders his young philosophy students to put away their laptops and smartphones so that he can deliver another deeply pessimistic monologue. This time, the subject is empathy.
“Imagine,” he instructs them, “that I am a man of immense wealth and power, who could do a lot of good things for a lot of people — and the world. But because of my crippling self-loathing, I just keep taking more of everything for myself. If you can imagine such a person exists.” Bitter laughter fills the room, and what was implicit in the premiere becomes explicit: Greg’s crisis is about Donald Trump.
As he sees it, empathy is no longer a viable mode of dissent. Sure, he argues, one can acknowledge that “psychic pain” dictates this, er, imaginary man’s behavior. But acknowledging that distress accomplishes nothing besides lulling a person into complacency. “Are you suggesting that we not strive to choose empathy over fear?” asks his nervous teaching assistant. “Because that’s kind of the cornerstone of your philosophy.”
This has the potential to be a rich conversation, even if you don’t share Greg’s bleak point of view. I only wish Alan Ball, the creator of “Here and Now” and the author of its first two episodes, had found a different way to start it. A subtler screenwriter might have heeded that ancient writing workshop maxim “Show, don’t tell.” But a show’s political agenda doesn’t have to be subtle to be effective, as both seasons of FX’s blunt yet poignant “American Crime Story” have proven. The bigger problem is that Ball is dictating what each of his characters represents before we have much insight into who they are.
Advertisement
Ashley is the screen on which society’s racism is projected. Kristen, who talks openly about slut-shaming and menstruation in class, is becoming the show’s avatar for feminism. She’s had the bad luck of contracting chlamydia from her very first sexual encounter, and when Ashley takes her to Planned Parenthood, Kristen beats up an anti-abortion protester who calls her a “dumb whore.” Both sisters get arrested, but while the cops goof around with Kristen, who finds the whole experience exhilarating, a female officer humiliates Ashley, forcing her to remove her wig, questioning her about her expensive purse and cracking that the tampon she finds inside it explains Ashley’s bad mood.
Advertisement
The upshot? Ashley embraces her natural hair. Sure, why not?
Apart from my certainty that even the nastiest female cop wouldn’t have made that tampon joke, what’s irritating about this story line is that it’s just as didactic as Greg’s lecture. It doesn’t give us any insight into who Ashley and Kristen are as individuals. From the clunkiness of its plot points to the laundry list of racial and gender issues it neatly checks off, the episode reduces one character to the archetypal oppressed black woman and the other to the archetypal entitled white girl.
Audrey’s story line, which casts her as a true believer in the power of empathy, is just as frustrating. We discover what her Empathy Initiative actually does, sort of, when the principal of Kristen’s high school seeks her advice on what to do about a “Northern European Heritage Society” that some students have recently organized. Many students are, understandably, angry about what they see as a school-sanctioned neo-Nazi organization. So, Audrey brings the factions together and, thanks to the magic of “I feel” statements, quickly gets the white kids to back down. Well, that was easy.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Then there’s poor Duc, who’s stuck with this episode’s worst subplot. In a painfully expository exchange (“Fairfax Press loves the latest draft of your book, not to mention your Twitter and Instagram followings”), we learn that he’s visiting Vancouver to meet with a potential publisher. Fairfax, which also happens to have published Greg’s groundbreaking book, offers him a deal, with the caveat that he has to ask his father to write the foreword. This scene apparently exists to reinforce what was already apparent from the premiere: Duc is living in Greg’s shadow. Got it.
More ridiculous is the sequence in which Duc, who’s supposed to be celibate, beds a series of women in quick succession. These erotic-thriller shots are interspersed with flashbacks to his childhood in Vietnam, where a young Duc is forced to watch a prostitute, presumably his mother, sleep with clients. (At first, because there’s no dialogue and the editing is so ambiguous, I thought the whole sequence was an abstinence-induced hallucination.) By the end of the Vancouver trip, this compulsively healthy “motivational architect” is swimming in empty beer bottles, junk food wrappers and shame. I guess this means he’s a secret sex addict?
Duc and Ashley aren’t the only characters of color whose lives are defined solely by their identity markers or their past trauma. When we finally get a few minutes with Farid’s family, we find that they talk and think mostly about being Muslim. He worries that his wife will be attacked for wearing her hijab, and both parents are concerned about what might become of their religiously committed, gender-fluid son, Navid, who likes to wear a veil and heavy eye makeup at home. Navid also has some kind of fascination with Kristen, which raises the slightly more interesting question of whether these two families are being drawn together by some force greater than themselves.
The only relief from the episode’s doomsaying monologues and menagerie of marginalized identities that stand in for multidimensional personalities is Ramon’s story — which is, thankfully, too weird to be summed up by the fact that he’s gay and Colombian. He now knows that Farid is the boy from his dream. We find out that the doctor is also disturbed by their encounter, and that the Persian phrase Ramon heard Farid’s mother utter in the dream means, “It’s coming.”
So, what exactly is coming? Well, Ramon and Henry’s relationship has gotten so sweet, I’m worried something tragic is about to befall the two characters who make me feel feelings. Meanwhile, Ramon, known to his older siblings as “Baby Jesus,” wonders if he’s been “chosen.” If not, maybe schizophrenia is what’s coming. When he catches his family debating how to handle that possibility, he vows not to “come at it from fear.”
Messianic Ramon has picked his side of the empathy-vs.-fear dichotomy. Audrey chose empathy long ago, for better or worse. Greg, Duc, Ashley and the Shokranis seem consumed by various fears. And, as exasperating as I found this episode, I’m curious to watch “Here and Now” track the ways its characters are served by the approaches to living they’ve chosen. I just hope they become real people at some point along the way.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »