
Advertisement
Supported by
By Victor Mather
Right Now
The United States won the women’s hockey gold medal over Canada in a shootout. 
Anna Gasser of Austria outdueled Jamie Anderson of the United States to win the big air snowboard competition.  Gasser and Anderson outclassed the rest of the field, finishing far ahead.
Anderson, who earlier won the slopestyle gold medal,  scored better on the first jump. Gasser won the second. Anderson fell on her third run, but because the scoring is best two of three, she remained in the lead.
Gasser took the last jump of the competition, needing a score of 88 to win gold. Instead, she popped a 96 on a cab double cork 1080, the best score of the competition, to win going away.
“I wasn't sure, should I keep it safe, should I just do that trick again and get a better score, or should I risk it?” Gasser said. “But I watched the girls and everyone was so good, so I was like, ‘O.K., I’m going to try to do this trick,’ and I was so happy when I landed it.”
Zoi Sadowski-Synnott won the bronze, New Zealand’s second-ever Winter Olympics medal and its first since 1992.
In a thrilling end to a battle between the sport’s superpowers, the United States beat Canada by a score of 3-2 in a shootout to win the gold medal in women’s ice hockey. Jocelyne Lamoureux-Davidson’s goal in the sixth round of the shootout sealed the victory for the Americans, giving the team its first gold in the event since 1998.
After going up 1-0 early, the United States quickly fell behind 2-1 and appeared on their way to yet another defeat. They trailed entering the third period, but found a different gear of aggressiveness and repeatedly pressed until they tied the score at 2-2 on Monique Lamoureux-Morando’s goal with 6:21 left to play in the third. Full coverage here.
Lindsey Vonn, having won the downhill segment, was last to go out of the gate in the slalom part of the Olympic Alpine combined event, with a chance at a medal, maybe even a gold. In all likelihood, it was to be her final Olympic run.
But despite her best efforts, Vonn could not conjure any slalom magic. She missed a gate early and was eliminated. Michelle Gisin of Switzerland won the race.
Mikaela Shiffrin was sixth in the downhill, but only third in the slalom and won the silver medal, 0.97 seconds back.  Follow our coverage here.
Marcel Hirscher of Austria, the heavy favorite, missed a gate on his first run and was eliminated from the slalom. Hirscher had not failed to complete a slalom run in two years.
Hirscher was going for his third gold medal of the Olympics, having won the giant slalom and the combined.
“I had already a really bad feeling about the whole situation,” Hirscher said. “So this is the end result of a few training days and training runs where I couldn't find any speed.”
The winner was Andre Myhrer of Sweden, a bronze medalist in the event back in 2010. 
David Wise, 27, who won the gold medal when ski halfpipe debuted at the 2014 Sochi Games, won it again, while Alex Ferreira took silver. They were among four Americans in the final field of 12, including the reigning world champion Aaron Blunck, heightening anticipation the United States would sweep the event.
But a 16-year-old from New Zealand, Nico Porteous, deflated those hopes, claiming the bronze.
The one-two finish drew a sustained roar from an American-heavy crowd at the Phoenix Snow Park who clearly hoped to see a sweep with such a high caliber of athletes in the field. — RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD
A team of two American women ended one of the longest droughts in U.S. Olympic sports. 
Kikkan Randall and Jessie Diggins won gold in the women’s cross country team sprint race, beating out Sweden and Norway. 
They are the first American cross country skiers to medal at the Olympics since Bill Koch took home a silver in 1976.
Randall slipped to third in her last leg, but was on the heels of Norway and Sweden for the final exchange. Diggins exploded ahead as the final lap became a 1.3 kilometer sprint, inching for gold for a photo finish.
Norway won the men’s event. — TALYA MINSBERG
The United States won the bronze medal in the women’s pursuit, its first long-track speedskating medal of the Games. The U.S. outskated Canada for the medal; Japan defeated the mighty Netherlands team in the gold-medal race. Norway won the men’s race.
Mariama Jamanka of Germany drove to victory in the two-woman bobsled. The American Elana Meyers Taylor, second four years ago, won the silver again, losing by only seven hundredths of a second over four runs.
Alina Zagitova of Russia, just 15, edged out her countrywoman, the comparably ancient Evgenia Medvedeva, 18, in the women’s short program, setting up a potential epic battle in the free skate. 
Zagitova defeated the previously unbeatable Medvedeva at the European Championships earlier in the year, and did it again with superior technical scores thanks to a triple Lutz-triple loop combination and a triple flip.
There was disappointment from the Americans, none of whom completed a clean program. Mirai Nagasu, Karen Chen and Bradie Tennell were ninth, 10th, and 11th after the short program. Full coverage here.
Lindsey Vonn, the American skiing superstar, won the third Olympic medal of her career, but it was a bronze, not a gold, in the downhill.
Brady Leman of Canada, who was fourth four years ago, won the men’s ski cross race.
Cassie Sharpe of Canada laid down a winning score on her first run of the women’s ski halfpipe, nudged it further out of reach on her second run, and coasted to the gold medal. 
South Korea repeated as Olympic champion in the women’s short-track speedskating relay, outdueling China. A judge’s review of a crash then led to the disqualification of both China and Canada, promoting Italy to the silver medal and the Netherlands, which had won the consolation final, into the bronze position. The winning team included Minjeong Choi, who picked up her second gold of these Games.
The United States was eliminated from the men’s hockey tournament in a shootout by the Czech Republic. The quarterfinal game went  to a shootout after a 2-2 tie was not broken in overtime. The Czechs made only one of five penalty shots, by Petr Koukal on their second shot.  But the U.S. failed to make any. 
The women’s figure skating free skate, with two Russians battling for the gold
Men’s hockey advances to the semifinals
Men race 1,000 meters in speedskating.
Victor Mather is a general assignment sports reporter and editor.  
Advertisement