
By JAMES PONIEWOZIKFEB. 22, 2018

“Seven Seconds” is a crime story in which you know immediately who did it. Pete Jablonski (Beau Knapp), a Jersey City police officer, is driving through a park on the way to the hospital to meet his pregnant wife, when he hits something. Or someone, it turns out: There’s a bicycle in the snow, and a trail of blood.
In shock, Pete calls Michael DiAngelo (David Lyons), his sergeant in his narcotics unit, who finds the victim: an African-American teenage boy. They have to cover it up, DiAngelo says. Otherwise, he adds, Pete will be crucified, payback for “Ferguson, Chicago, Baltimore — every white cop who ever killed a black kid.”
The boy is in a deep coma. We never hear him speak, see only a few glimpses of him taking his last bike ride. But we hear his name again and again: Brenton Butler, which hangs over the story like others — Tamir Rice, Freddie Gray — that have become totems and rallying cries.
The cover-up leads inexorably to further crimes. But the true mystery in “Seven Seconds” is, Will Brenton get justice? What would justice look like? And how many other lives will be destroyed in the wake of Brenton’s?
Advertisement
These are timely questions emerging from a too familiar tragedy, even if “Seven Seconds” is ultimately not as well executed as it is well intentioned.
Advertisement
“Seven Seconds” comes from Veena Sud, whose last series, “The Killing,” was at its best a mournful look at murder’s toll on the survivors, the accused and the investigators. (Just as “The Killing” was based on a Danish series, “Seven Seconds” is based on the Russian film “The Major.”) But in its initial case, which stretched beyond the first season, “The Killing” became a grim slog of red herrings and implausible twists. It later rallied, but never wholly recovered.
The new series, arriving on Netflix on Friday, shares with “The Killing” a brooding tone and a concern with the ripple effects of violence. But it’s an anthology series, in which each season tells a complete story. This helps focus the cat-and-mouse procedural at this season’s center.
The case falls to K. J. Harper (Clare-Hope Ashitey), a prosecutor who makes a politically convenient point for her boss because she’s African-American, and Detective Joe Rinaldi (Michael Mosley), known as Fish, who begins to realize that the cover story doesn’t add up.
As evidence starts to point toward the brutal, corrupt narcotics unit (shades of “The Shield”), K. J. — already haunted by a past case that had a disastrous effect on a family with children — dulls the stress with booze and karaoke. Fish, a newcomer to the department with his own troubled past, relishes the animosity of his fellow police officers almost masochistically.
K. J. and Fish have an eccentric rapport that will be familiar to fans of “The Killing.” Ms. Sud has a feel for creating broken characters whose pieces somehow work better in combination.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But “Seven Seconds” has ambitions far beyond telling a procedural story, and that’s where it becomes the most dour and heavy-handed.
Much like a previous anthology series,  “American Crime,” on ABC, “Seven Seconds” aims at a head-to-toe diagnosis of national ills: racism, police violence, drug abuse, homophobia, an overtaxed public sector and the treatment of veterans are all folded in eventually. Lest the themes elude you, the opening montage includes a blindfolded figure of Justice, American flags and the Statue of Liberty, whose distant presence across the water the series returns to again and again.
While the season runs 10 episodes, several over an hour, most of the supporting characters grow no deeper the longer we spend with them. The police are all chest-thumping aggression and “we take care of our own” machismo, with the exception of Pete, who’s trapped between guilt and fear.
Advertisement
Regina King, also a co-star of “American Crime,” is devastating as Brenton’s mother, Latrice, who spirals into loss, desperation and rage at the system’s indifference. But they’re all that defines her; so many of the characters here seem more like personifications of suffering or dysfunction than like people.
“Seven Seconds” is good at showing its characters’ pain; it’s less effective at giving them a more rounded humanity, as Showtime’s series “The Chi” — also about the aftermath of violence — has done much better.
But there’s a purity of dark vision driving the series, if you’re willing to take it without sweetener. There’s a legal term that comes up in the investigation, “depraved indifference”: inaction so egregious that it amounts to murder. “Seven Seconds” suggests that there’s plenty of such guilt to go around, well beyond the suspects in the case.
The black hit-and-run victim, for instance, is immediately assumed to have gang connections. But later, a drug-addicted white girl from a rich suburb is let off for shoplifting by a store manager who says: “She was from a good home. I figured I’d give her a break.”
Ultimately, that’s what “Seven Seconds,” however imperfectly, is about: who gets a break and who gets broken.
A version of this review appears in print on February 23, 2018, on Page C19 of the New York edition with the headline: A Cover-Up Means More Crimes.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.