
Advertisement
Supported by
By Andrew R. Chow
Stream a documentary about Muhammad Ali or a 1970s gang classic. And Oprah comes to Jimmy Kimmel Live!
I AM ALI (2014) on Netflix. You have a week to watch this Muhammad Ali documentary before it disappears from Netflix. It’s built around private audiotapes Ali recorded for posterity, and focuses on his personal life, with interviews with his inner circle of family and friends, as well as George Foreman and Mike Tyson. “There’s so much great vintage footage of Ali,” Ben Kenigsberg wrote in his review in The New York Times. “And he’s so charismatic, it would be hard to watch the movie and not take something from it.”
THE WARRIORS (1979) on Amazon Prime. When this film was released, New York City still had the reputation of being a lawless landscape overrun by gang violence. The director, Walter Hill, takes a stylized approach to this material, with his street fighters in elaborate matching costumes, makeup and even roller skates. “The film is as handsome to watch as it is preposterous to listen to, full of gorgeous nocturnal city images that splash blaring neon colors against filthy, rain-slicked gray,” Janet Maslin wrote in her review in The Times. A peaceful gang rally in the Bronx is upended when a leader is assassinated, and a gang called the Warriors is falsely accused of killing him. The movie follows the Warriors around the city as they’re chased through streets and subway stations back to Coney Island.
2018 PYEONGCHANG OLYMPICS 8 p.m. on NBC. The American figure skater Mirai Nagasu will compete for gold in the free skate program, four years after she failed to make the team at Sochi and was presumed to have aged out of the competition. (“I’m not a fade-away kind of person,” she told The Times in a recent interview.) Other events on Thursday include women’s Alpine skiing and snowboarding, and short-track speedskating for men and women.
NASHVILLE 9 p.m. on CMT. In the midseason finale, Daphne (Maisy Stella) auditions for a country music singing competition. Avery’s band is invited to perform on late-night TV; he (Jonathan Jackson) and the rest of the band feel the consequences of choices by Will (Chris Carmack).
JIMMY KIMMEL LIVE! 11:35 p.m. on ABC. Oprah Winfrey will appear on this late-night show ostensibly to talk about her appearance in the forthcoming film “A Wrinkle in Time.” But Mr. Kimmel may have other things on his mind. “Given the choice between Oprah and our current president, I’m on the bus with Oprah traveling the country encouraging people to sign up and vote,” he said last month. The other guest is Timothée Chalamet, who hopes to become the youngest best actor winner ever at the Oscars. And Andra Day and Common will perform after a rousing appearance at N.B.A. All-Star Weekend.
Advertisement