

                Vows            
By                     
                                    TAMMY La GORCE
                            
                FEB. 23, 2018
    
Belvy Klein’s romance with Dana Steinberg is reminiscent of a certain 1980s pop song. But not one that would be sung by Debbie Harry, who walked him down the aisle on his wedding day.
“Maybe it’s like ‘Uptown Girl,’” said Mr. Klein, who also said he is not much of a Billy Joel fan but the song’s sentiment worked.
Mr. Klein, who in 2011 helped found Brooklyn Bazaar, a sprawling Brooklyn nightclub, has long expressed not just a preference but a passion for music less mainstream than Mr. Joel’s. In the 1990s and early 2000s he was a drummer and singer in punk bands including D Generation and Libertine; earlier in his career he played with 7 Seconds and U.K. Subs.
And when he was barely out of diapers in the 1970s, he made a mighty racket in his family’s Lower East Side apartment with a toy drum given to him by Ms. Harry, his late mother’s best friend, the lead singer of Blondie and his godmother.
Advertisement
Still, he said Mr. Joel’s paean to a “back-street guy” who sets out to win the heart of a woman from a ritzier New York ZIP code pretty aptly describes his relationship with Ms. Steinberg, a fourth-generation New Yorker raised on the Upper East Side.
“Dana and I are both native New Yorkers, but our backgrounds are totally different. Like they couldn’t be any different,” said Mr. Klein, who now lives in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn. “I come from a really messed-up, dysfunctional family. My parents were always fighting, and there was never any money.” Ms. Steinberg, on the other hand, “is totally normal. The first time I met her family, I thought they were the Jewish ‘Leave It to Beaver.’”
Advertisement
Ms. Steinberg, 37, met Mr. Klein, 52, in March 2007, when she was a law student at Tulane University in New Orleans. Had she been less inclined to breach the boundaries of the New York neighborhood where she grew up with two sisters and her parents, Richard, a lawyer, and Nancy, a real estate agent, their paths may not have crossed.
“It was spring break and I came home to visit,” Ms. Steinberg said. “My sister and I went to a party, and then we went to Niagara,” a downtown club. Downtown night life wasn’t foreign to Ms. Steinberg even though she had an uptown pedigree: In high school, her best friend Melissa Broudo recalled, “we were nice Jewish girls but we thought we were punk rockers. We would go hang out in the East Village every weekend, and we worshiped Sid Vicious.”
Mr. Klein, who was easing out of his music career after playing big festivals like the Warped Tour with Libertine, was D.J.ing at Niagara. Ms. Steinberg started talking to him. By the end of the night, he had her phone number and they were making plans to meet the next day. The differences in their backgrounds — he dropped out of high school when he was 14 to join a band, she studied classics and anthropology at Williams College before earning a master’s degree in Latin American Studies at Tulane and enrolling in law school there — barely registered.
“I pretty much spent the rest of that spring break, which was my last year in law school, with him,” she said. “I don’t know if I thought it would lead to anything serious, but we connected.” When she was back at law school, a long-distance relationship took shape. “We were on the phone a lot. I was thinking, There’s definitely something there.” She based her decision to move back to New York after earning her law degree on that seductive something.
Mr. Klein, lanky and heavily tattooed, was just as eager to resume his face-to-face relationship with Ms. Steinberg despite what he called the “Lady and the Tramp” scenario. Though he had few stable relationships in his life — he and his mother, Wendy Klein, were only sporadically in touch with Ms. Harry when he was in his 30s despite her occasional pop-ins at his punk shows, and he was estranged from his father, a onetime New York cabdriver, after his parents divorced in the 1980s — he felt the potential for something lasting with Ms. Steinberg.
“No one is going to believe these words came out of my mouth, but I feel like it was pretty electric right off the bat,” he said.
Advertisement
At first, navigating the social gulf between their families wasn’t an issue. Ms. Steinberg’s parents had moved to Scarsdale, N.Y., a few years earlier, and Mr. Klein’s mother had moved to Lake Owassa, in northwestern New Jersey. Mr. Klein’s schedule was an excuse to avoid Scarsdale. “He was always out at night D.J.ing or playing music, so there was no real opportunity for him to meet my parents,” Ms. Steinberg said. But by the time they planned a trip to Belize a few months into their relationship, a Steinberg family tradition disrupted the cocoon they were building around themselves.
“When somebody in my family is going to leave the country, we always have dinner first,” said Ms. Steinberg, now a lawyer practicing litigation defense at Kennedys CMK in New York. Mr. Klein covered his tattoos with a long-sleeved shirt and headed to what Ms. Broudo called the Steinberg’s “schmancy suburb” in Westchester County.
The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
“When I got there, I was like, This has to be phony. It was this stereotypical perfect American house with a beautiful family. I was like, Why is no one screaming at each other and breaking things?” Mr. Klein said. “My perception of family was chaos.”
The Steinbergs, to Mr. Klein’s surprise but not Ms. Steinberg’s, expressed few reservations about the relationship. “My parents are pretty open,” she said.
He said he felt uncomfortable for a long time. “I probably spent the first three years I knew them wearing long-sleeve shirts,” Mr. Klein said. “But at the end of the day they saw that their daughter was in love. And they accepted it.”
In 2009, Ms. Steinberg and Mr. Klein moved into the one-bedroom apartment they still share in Greenpoint. In 2011, Ms. Broudo’s husband, Aaron Broudo, a lawyer, approached Mr. Klein about starting a music club. Their first venture was an outdoor night bazaar in Brooklyn. That evolved into BK Bazaar, which has been featured on the opening credits to “Saturday Night Live” and functions as kind of a community center, combining music, food, bars, art, karaoke and mini-golf.
As Mr. Klein’s business acumen developed, his desire to marry Ms. Steinberg grew too. “I knew around six years ago I wanted to marry her, but I’d been completely consumed by work,” he said. His mother’s death after a long illness in 2014 also required some reckoning. Despite his messy childhood, they had been close.
After a search, Ms. Harry resurfaced to help him grieve. “I had lost her phone number like 12 cellphones ago,” he said. But he knew she would want to know Ms. Klein had died. “Debbie and my mom grew up together and were always the bad girls together at their high school” in New Jersey. “She was my first babysitter.” For Ms. Harry, he said, the news hit hard. “She was like, ‘I wish I could have done something.’”
Mr. Klein and Ms. Steinberg have since become steady presences in Ms. Harry’s life, meeting her backstage at Blondie shows and visiting her at her home. When the couple came back engaged after a May 2016 vacation to the northern lakes region of Italy, Ms. Harry was among the first to congratulate them.
Advertisement
“I was very happy for him,” she said. “Belvy and I have been close since he was a toddler. Even if we fell out of touch a few times, I don’t ever feel distant from him. Music keeps us connected.”
Before the trip to Italy, Mr. Klein let Nancy Steinberg know he was in the market for a ring. After providing what he called “a jewelry education” via a tour of Midtown Manhattan diamond dealers, she helped him settle on a cushion cut with a halo of diamonds and a diamond band, which he tucked in his suitcase. On the tiny island of Isola Pescatori in the middle of Lake Maggiore, Mr. Klein proposed from across a table at Ristorante Verbano.
“It was the perfect spring night,” he said. “The food blew us away, the local wine was amazing, the moon was full, stars were out, you could see the outlines of snowcapped mountains cascading straight down to the water.”
Ms. Steinberg, who said the setting was “like something out of a Sophia Loren movie,” was stunned. “When he pulled out the box and slid it into my hand, I cried. Because it made no sense. We had been together so long, and I had never been pushing for us to get married.” Still, she had no reservations: She instantly said yes.
So did Ms. Harry, toward the end of 2017, when Mr. Klein asked her to walk him down the aisle.
On Jan. 28 at the Water Club in New York, Ms. Harry did just that.
After Ms. Steinberg, in an open-backed, full-length ivory dress she found at the Bridal Garden in New York, made her way with her parents past 100 guests to a huppah woven with white roses and ranunculus, Mr. Klein and Ms. Harry, walking arm in arm, joined them. Rabbi Jonathan E. Blake of Westchester Reform Temple, together with Mr. Klein’s brother, Jason Klein, and his daughter, Olivia, and Ms. Steinberg’s sisters, Emily and Jennifer, gathered with them under the huppah.
Once the wedding party was assembled, Rabbi Blake lightened guests’ moods. “This is the quintessential New York love story,” he said. “Punk rocker meets high-powered lawyer. Lawyer sees head-to-toe tattoos, loses all rational sense, and the rest is history.”
After reading vows written by Ms. Steinberg and Mr. Klein — Mr. Klein’s were in the form of a song — Rabbi Blake cracked another joke, teasing Mr. Klein about how long it took him to propose. “It’s about damn time,” he said. “Your first encounter took place in a different decade.”
Advertisement
“Perhaps a song was going through your head,” he continued, musing about Mr. Klein’s slowness to the altar. “One way, or another,” he sang, with a smile and a glance back at Ms. Harry.
ON THIS DAYWhen Jan. 28, 2018.Where The Water Club in ManhattanNew to Judaism Mr. Klein has never been particularly religious, he said, but he wore a skullcap and, in keeping with Jewish tradition, stomped on a glass to cheers of “mazel tov!” after he and Ms. Steinberg were officially wed.Champagne and Waffles Guests were served a lavish brunch post-ceremony at the Water Club, including an omelet and waffle station. Ms. Harry toasted the couple, remembering Mr. Klein’s early years and how his mother inspired her to move to New York after high school. Cake and More Cake Among the five cakes on display in the dining room, one was decorated with “Lady and the Tramp” characters.After-Party Concert After hours of dining and mingling in Manhattan, guests decamped to Brooklyn Bazaar for a post-reception party with musical surprises. Mr. Klein and Ms. Steinberg’s first dance was to the English Beat song “Doors to Your Heart,” played by the punk band the So So Glos. Later, Ms. Harry took the stage, playing an intimate show for a rapt, and thoroughly thrilled, audience. In addition to a cocktail-jazzy version of “The Hunter Gets Captured by the Game,” she performed other cover songs including, with a wink, “You Can’t Hurry Love.” She closed her set with one of her biggest hits, “Heart of Glass.” “She was incredible,” said an appreciative Mr. Klein. “I have to say the whole thing was pretty epic.”
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows) and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page ST12 of the New York edition with the headline: Uptown Girl, in Love With a Brooklyn Guy.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »