

                The High End            
By                     
                                    STEFANOS CHEN
                            
                FEB. 23, 2018
    

            CreditRendering by Williams New York        
With the start of Brooklyn Point, a 68-story mixed-use condominium under construction in Downtown Brooklyn, the borough’s heated real estate market hit another milestone: It has Gary Barnett’s attention.
Mr. Barnett, the president and founder of Extell Development, is best known for extravagant skyscrapers in Manhattan, including Central Park Tower, which, should it achieve its goal of more than $4 billion in sales, will be the city’s highest-grossing residential tower.
Now his firm has ambitious goals for Brooklyn Point, its first-ever project in the borough, albeit on a different scale.
“We wanted something substantial enough to bring Extell from Manhattan,” Mr. Barnett said about choosing the site. “To bring our kind of product” to Brooklyn, he added. The tower will be the third at City Point, a roughly 1.8 million-square-foot mixed-use complex near several subway lines and anchored by retailers like Target and Century 21. For a short while, it might also be the tallest in the borough, rising 720 feet. Another luxury tower, at 9 DeKalb Avenue, is expected to reach 1,066 feet. Both projects are slated for completion in 2020.
Advertisement
Aside from the location, Extell was lured to the site by a subsidy program approved under the Bloomberg administration. For its investment in the City Point development, Extell received a 25-year tax abatement, in which the building owes no taxes for the first 20 years, then rises gradually in the last five years, according to Anthony Hogrebe, a spokesman for the city’s Economic Development Corporation. As part of the deal, Extell contributed to the creation of 200 affordable housing units nearby.
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Designed by the architecture firm Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates, the glassy tower will have retail at its base and 458 luxury condo units, ranging from studios for $837,000 to three-bedrooms starting at $2.9 million. “That’s what passes as affordable nowadays,” said Mr. Barnett, noting that the bulk of listings will fall in that range, while the most expensive units will list for around $4 million.
Advertisement
Sales will begin in the spring, said Anna Zarro, Extell’s director of sales and leasing. The developer anticipates total sales of about $901 million, according to paperwork filed with New York State.
While the tower may not be the tallest in Brooklyn, it will have perhaps the highest rooftop pool in the city. “That’s sort of how we’ll be known,” said Ms. Zarro, describing the infinity-edge pool that will overlook the Manhattan skyline. It’s one feature, she said, that will set it apart from a wave of new towers now rising in the area. Other amenities will include a yoga studio, a rock climbing wall, an indoor pool and several terraces. Katherine Newman Design will design the interiors.
The project enters a market with record price growth in sales, but growing concern on the rental side. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the median sale price in Brooklyn was $770,000, the third-highest price recorded, said Jonathan J. Miller, a New York appraiser. Compared with the same period from the previous year, the median sale price has risen every quarter for five years straight, he added, and the trend isn’t likely to change soon. “You can argue that in certain areas” of Brooklyn, “there is a shortage of condos,” Mr. Miller said.
By contrast, the rental market, which accounts for the vast majority of new development in Brooklyn, has cooled. In January, 47.5 percent of new leases included some form of concession, such as a period of free rent — a record high, said Mr. Miller, noting that a surge of supply contributed to the discounts. (In Manhattan, there is a glut of new luxury condo projects and fewer rental buildings going up.)
As one of a number of new condo projects coming to the area, Extell’s tower could set the tone for the fast-growing market. “It’s a bellwether for Downtown Brooklyn,” said Brendan Aguayo, a senior vice president with Halstead Property Development Marketing, which is not involved in the project. He said there are roughly 1,500 new condo units expected by 2019 for the neighborhood, and the Extell project will test buyers’ willingness to pay top dollar.
As of January, there were no apartments listed for more than $3 million, said Garrett Derderian, director of data and reporting for Stribling & Associates. Extell’s most expensive units — high-floor apartments that Mr. Barnett said will list for around $4 million — could come close to record territory. The most expensive sale in the neighborhood was a $4.3 million five-bedroom apartment in 2017, Mr. Derderian said.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 2018, on Page RE8 of the New York edition with the headline: Downtown Brooklyn Gets a Luxury Tower With a Pool on Top.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »