

                What You Get            
By                     
                                    JULIE LASKY
                            
                FEB. 28, 2018
    

            CreditFirefly Aerial Solutions        
WHAT A five-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bathroom house, with portions dating to 1835
HOW MUCH $850,000
SIZE 4,995 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $170
SETTING Convenient to water sports, antiques shops and Red’s Eats, a beloved lobster shack in nearby Wiscasset, Me.
INDOORS The owners, who ran a fabric store out of the home, renovated the building with salvaged fixtures from New England, New York and France. A great room with columns supporting a beamed ceiling has antique bricks from Southern Maine. The kitchen, with its own row of decorative columns, includes a French butcher’s counter, a metal sink from Faneuil Hall in Boston and a stone gargoyle from a post office in Newburyport, Mass. Blue doors from France lead to the pantry; mahogany doors from New York lead to the mudroom. There is also a sitting room, foyer/media room and powder room on this level.
At the top of one staircase are two bedrooms, a full bathroom and a large walk-in closet through a pair of arched doors. A hallway leads to a third bedroom and bathroom. This level also has a large unfinished space with brick walls and rafters that is not included in calculations of the total area.
Advertisement
A third floor has two heated rooms that can be used as bedrooms.
OUTDOOR SPACE There is a screened porch off the great room. The 2.44-acre property also has a stone veranda and a detached two-car garage.
Advertisement
TAXES $8,514
CONTACT The Steven Chicoine Real Estate Team, Keller Williams Realty, 207-446-8060; kw.com
WHAT An expanded 1951 house in a wooded setting, with five bedrooms and four and a half bathrooms
HOW MUCH $840,000
SIZE 3,250 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $258
SETTING The home is in the Duke Forest neighborhood, about a mile from Duke University. The three-mile Al Buehler walking and biking trail is nearby. Downtown Durham is about a five-minute drive.
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
INDOORS Renovations since 2011 have resulted in an updated kitchen, a new master suite and a detached garage with an upstairs apartment that can be rented for about $800 a month.
The entrance from a long covered front porch leads to a foyer big enough to hold a grand piano. To the left is a large living and dining area with parquet floors, a fireplace and French doors opening to a back terrace. Beyond the dining area is a kitchen with mahogany-colored cabinets and pale blue subway tile. An adjoining breakfast area has a banquette and a glass door to the terrace.
To the right of the entrance is a hallway leading to the master suite. This room has porch access, walk-in closets and a bathroom with a glass shower and a soaking tub. A den, powder room, two additional bedrooms and a bathroom are also on this level; upstairs is a large bedroom and bathroom.
OUTDOOR SPACE The property is .79 acres. The paved back terrace has low stone walls, a pergola and a kitchen.
Advertisement
TAXES $8,687
CONTACT Brandon Jozwiak, 501 Realty, 919-530-0117; 501realty.com
WHAT An enlarged 1958 hillside home with four bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms
HOW MUCH $849,000
SIZE 2,568 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $331
SETTING The house is in South West Hills, an upscale neighborhood with vintage houses, winding roads and excellent schools. It has views of the Oregon Coast Range and is less than 10 minutes by car to the Hillsdale business district and 15 minutes to Marquam Nature Park.
INDOORS Bought from its original owners in 2009, the house was transformed by the current owners. A wall of the upper level was opened with new glass doors and windows onto a 1,000-square-foot deck. The lower level was renovated, with three small bedrooms, a den with a fireplace and a full bathroom.
The upper level has an open layout, with a living and dining area on one side of a double-faced brick fireplace and a family room and kitchen on the other. The kitchen has a mosaic-tile wall and a large island with a built-in range. The master suite is entered through a 16th-century carved Chinese monastery door. Sliding antique carved doors from Thailand create a screen between the bedroom and the master bathroom, which has a stone-paved shower and a jetted self-cleaning soaking tub.
OUTDOOR SPACE The hill-facing side of the property has a stone terrace with a long pergola and sculptural benches. Because space from the attached two-car garage was taken up by the renovation, the structure is now used for storage; vehicles park in the carport next to it. The third-of-an-acre property is planted with fig, plum and apple trees, and blueberry and raspberry bushes. There is also a tree house, a gas firepit and a chicken coop.
TAXES  $9,416
CONTACT Pedro Cruz, RE/MAX Equity Group, 503-703-0028; equitygroup.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »