
Advertisement
Supported by
By Elizabeth Paton
After months of speculation, Burberry has named Riccardo Tisci as its new chief creative officer. He will be responsible for all of the men’s and women’s wear collections and accessories as the brand looks for a turnaround in fortunes after several years of stagnant sales.
Mr. Tisci, who was creative director at Givenchy from 2005 to 2017, will replace Christopher Bailey, who ended 17 years at Burberry’s creative helm with a final runway collection during London Fashion Week last month.
Mr. Tisci, 43, a graduate of Central St. Martins in London, will start in the role March 12 and be based at the Burberry headquarters in London. Other names that had been touted for the position — one of the most powerful in British fashion — included John Galliano, creative director at Maison Margiela; Kim Jones, former men's creative director at Louis Vuitton; Phoebe Philo, former artistic director at Céline, and Stuart Vevers, creative director at Coach.
“I am delighted that Riccardo is joining Burberry. He is one of the most talented designers of our time,” Marco Gobbetti, Burberry’s chief executive, said in a statement following the appointment. “His designs have an elegance that is contemporary and his skill in blending streetwear with high fashion is highly relevant to today’s luxury consumer. Riccardo’s creative vision will reinforce the ambitions we have for Burberry and position the brand firmly in luxury.”
Mr. Gobbetti and Mr. Tisci — both Italians — had worked together at Givenchy, where Mr. Gobbetti was the French brand’s chief executive and hired Mr. Tisci in 2005. Mr. Tisci was responsible for transforming the brand from a house defined largely by the relationship between Hubert de Givenchy, the founder, and Audrey Hepburn, his greatest muse, to a house beloved by 21st-century celebrities such as the Kardashians and a social media force.
“Marco and Riccardo built a strong story together at Givenchy,” said Jeffrey Kalinsky, director of designer fashion at Nordstrom. “They are a great partnership and I am very hopeful they will do the same at Burberry.”

26 Photos
View Slide Show ›
Jean-Luce Huré for The New York Times
Burberry, Britain’s largest luxury brand by sales, now is a house looking for a creative transformation. Following Mr. Bailey’s decision last fall to step down, after years of flatlining sales and a failed experiment that saw him take on a dual role as both chief creative and chief executive, the brand unveiled a turnaround strategy at the end of last year.
Mr. Gobbetti intends to take the brand more upmarket to the realm of rivals like Gucci or Dior, with higher prices and profit margins to match. But sales thus far have continued to miss analyst forecasts, and the industry had been waiting to see who would be appointed to lead the creative aspects of Burberry into the next era.
Now, with most editors and buyers in Paris for fashion week, they have their answer.
And most seemed impressed — if somewhat surprised — by the decision.

10 Photos
View Slide Show ›
Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images
“I love the idea. It’s an unexpected choice, but that’s what makes it so exciting,” said Jim Gold, president and chief merchandising officer of Neiman Marcus. “We believe Riccardo is one of the great designers working today. We love that he’s tapped into what is happening on the street, but also has a real understanding of luxury and quality.”
Glenda Bailey, editor in chief of Harper’s Bazaar in the United States, added: “You have to remember that Riccardo trained at Central St. Martins and has always had something of a British love affair. He really relishes that eclectic spirit.”
Luca Solca, head of luxury for Exane BNP Paribas, called the appointment “an incremental positive, given Mr. Tisci’s strong track record and high profile,” in a note to investors. He cautioned, however, that any improvement in Burberry’s fortunes could take some time, with Gucci taking 18 months to show positive organic growth after the appointment of Alessandro Michele.
Mr. Tisci also seemed excited about a return to London and the challenge of tackling another major luxury brand in need of a Renaissance man.
“I am honored and delighted to be joining Burberry and reuniting with Marco Gobbetti,” Mr. Tisci said. “I have an enormous respect for Burberry’s British heritage and global appeal and I am excited about the potential of this exceptional brand.”
Vanessa Friedman contributed reporting.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.


Advertisement