
Advertisement
Supported by
fact check
The president mixed facts and falsehoods while discussing gun policy and potential solutions with legislators.
By Linda Qiu
President Trump signaled he was open to some proposals to curb gun violence on Wednesday during an hourlong televised meeting with a bipartisan group of lawmakers. 
But even as he voiced support for proposals generally backed by Democrats — including expanded background checks and raising the age limit to 21 for some gun buyers — the president peppered his remarks with inaccuracies about mass shootings and gun policy.
And many of his comments hewed firmly to traditional Republican Party tenets. 
“Hey, look, I’m the biggest fan of the Second Amendment,” Mr. Trump said. But he then said law enforcement should “take the guns first, go through due process second” when dealing with people who own guns and exhibit signs of mental illness. 
The president also repeatedly chastised lawmakers for being “afraid” and “petrified” of the National Rifle Association, which he then also praised as filled with “great patriots” who are “well meaning.” 
Here are some other comments by Mr. Trump during the session, fact-checked:
There was, in fact, an off-duty police officer working in the nightclub at the time of the shooting. Officer Adam Gruler, a member of the Orlando Police Department since 2001, responded and exchanged fire with the gunman. 
Several mass shootings have occurred in Texas.
Some recent examples: in November, a gunman opened fire on a church in Sutherland Springs, killing 26 people. In July 2016, a sniper gunned down police officers in Dallas, leaving five dead. And in 2014, a soldier killed three others at Fort Hood in Killeen. 
Mr. Trump is referring to a 2014 study from John Lott, an economist and gun rights advocate.
Mr. Lott found that 98.4 percent of mass public shootings have occurred in a “gun free zone.” His study looked at shootings that occurred in areas where civilians are not allowed to carry guns, as well as places that “made it extremely difficult” to obtain a concealed carry license.
Other researchers have criticized or directly refuted Mr. Lott’s work as too broad.
For instance, in his 2016 book, “Rampage Nation,” Louis Klarevas of the University of Massachusetts Boston criticized Mr. Lott’s definition of “gun free zones” and argued that the absence of conceal-carry laws does not equate to “gun free.” Such laws fail to account for weapons being carried by law enforcement officers, military troops or licensed professional security personnel. 
Mr. Klaveras also pointed out that Mr. Lott’s data set included military bases like Fort Hood and the Washington Navy Yard, where weapons are kept on site and held according to military protocol.  
Using his own data set of 111 mass shootings since 1966, Mr. Klarevas found that 84 percent took place in areas where civilians were allowed to carry guns. Similarly, the gun control advocacy group Everytown for Gun Safety found that 70 percent of mass shootings between January 2009 and July 2015 took place in private residences.
Fear of death or returning fire has not deterred several mass shooters in recent years. For example, perpetrators of mass shootings in Las Vegas in 2017, Isla Vista, Calif., in 2014 and Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in 2012 all committed suicide. 
Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to the Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.@ylindaqiu
Advertisement