
By SOPAN DEBMARCH 1, 2018

I came prepared for Opening Day, donning my New York Yankees cap.
Yes, baseball season is on the horizon. But I’m not talking about that. I’m talking about Opening Day at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, as it officially began its first transformation in admissions policy in 50 years.
On Thursday, in a major cultural shift for the city, the Met began charging out-of-state visitors a flat fee of $25 for entry, in an effort to create an essential revenue stream.
[The Met starts charging non-New Yorkers]
I visited the museum both on the day the new policy went into effect and on the last day of the bygone “pay what you wish” era for out-of-state visitors. Would the Met experience be a different one with mandatory fees? How would New Yorkers handle the anticipated requests to show identification? Would it be like renewing your license at the Department of Motor Vehicles? And would our neighbors from across the Hudson in New Jersey be cranky when asked to pay?
I arrived on Thursday around opening time, at 10 a.m., and got in line with about 150 others waiting to get through security and into the Great Hall. Mayke Dijkman, a chatty flight attendant who was visiting New York from the Netherlands, told me, “I think all the museums all over the world should be free,” but she added that the price hadn’t dissuaded her from going in.
Advertisement
[ Artists on the fee | NYC museums $12 or less]
As I walked inside, I was struck immediately by the new signs making it clear that the general admission prices were for “visitors from outside New York State,” and that for New York State residents and students from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, “the amount you pay is up to you.” Those of us from in state headed for one of the manned ticketing booths to show our ID — except today there was a snaking line extending from them, which wasn’t the case the day before. My new friend Mayke had her choice of going to one of the new self-service ticketing kiosks with a hot pink screen, or attaching herself to a staff member who can sell tickets on the fly with an iPad.
Advertisement
Some of the lingo was new too. There were “kiosk facilitators,” and “wayfinding ambassadors” who roamed about assisting discombobulated museumgoers and groups on field trips. (“Egypt to the right, Aphrodite to the left.”)
I dutifully walked up to the manned booth, curious if my Yankees cap would suffice as proof that I was a New Yorker. There was a sign nearby that said “we accept many forms of residency verification,” including a current bill and a library card. (The Met has said that it won’t be too rigid about its new policy — at first. People without a valid New York State ID will simply be asked to bring one next time.)
I asked the staffer if I could have one in-state admission ticket for a dollar and held my breath. But to my great delight, the Yankees hat worked. She asked me for my ZIP code, but not any other identification. (I won’t try this at Fenway Park.)
So at least for Day 1, there was no need for fake identifications or elaborate New York City-based disguises. All you needed was a Yankees cap. I wondered if Mets fans would enjoy the same rite of passage?
Next to me, I overheard the kiosk operator asking a visitor where she was from (Canada, it turned out) and then giving her an out-of-state ticket. The question, repeated by another operator at a separate booth, was clearly part of their script.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Once I was inside, I met James King, a 40-year-old from Edgewater, N.J., visiting the Met for the first time. He excitedly encouraged me to walk with him through an exhibition of ancient Greek artifacts.
“Twenty-five dollars? Anything that requires one or two pieces of paper out of your pocket is not that bad,” Mr. King said, referring to currency. A couple of seconds later, he pointed down a hallway at the Greek and Roman torsos with disbelief.
“How often are you going to see this?” Mr. King said.
A few minutes later, I spotted an older man on a bench sketching a marble Roman statue called “Marble torso of a youth” dating back to roughly 118 A.D. His name was David Farrell, a 67-year-old artist visiting from Hillsboro, N.M. He said he had been regularly coming to the Met since the 1970s, filling up his sketchbook, and he was up to around 70 visits. Mr. Farrell said he was disappointed by the mandatory fees.
“I think the Met has always been this haven of public art,” he said. “I think a lot of the people will look at the price tag and kind of balk, lower income people.”
Advertisement
But there is a silver lining for Met officials who might be anxious about how the new fee structure might affect out-of-state visitation. Mr. Farrell opted to become a museum member last week, so he could pay $80 a year, rather than $25 a visit.
A version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2018, on Page C20 of the New York edition with the headline: A Yankees Hat May Be Enough for Entry at the Met.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.