
Advertisement
Supported by
A Cold War film, a television season finale, a new festival, and one that is back for its 42nd year — it’s a lot to keep track of. Let us help you. For the week of March 4, seven events in New York and elsewhere not to be missed:
March 2.
When the “Hunger Games” director Francis Lawrence reunited with Jennifer Lawrence three years ago to shoot a spy thriller about a Bolshoi ballerina turned seductress for the Russian intelligence services, he wondered, he admitted in a recent interview in The New York Times, if the Cold War tension felt contrived and outdated.
Then fate intervened in the form of the investigation into Russia’s role in the American presidential election. And suddenly what’s old is new again. Now in theaters, “Red Sparrow” — starring Ms. Lawrence as a ferocious honey pot forced to ensnare a C.I.A. agent (Joel Edgerton) — reverberates like old-school John le Carré fare colliding midflight with Darren Aronofsky’s “Black Swan.” Sexual assault, grotesque torture and psychological warfare butt up against dueling dancers, Boris and Natasha accents and a heavy fringe of Slavic cool-girl bangs. But amid the occasional hokum is the imprint of legitimacy: Jason Matthews, who wrote the 2013 novel on which the film is based, worked as a C.I.A. officer for 33 years. KATHRYN SHATTUCK
Through Sept. 2; artbma.org.
The people in Stephen Towns’s story quilts are silhouettes, featureless except when an occasional row of neat orange or green stitching marks out the jut of a chin. But they’re surrounded by purple shadows; densely starry skies; and rocks and trees with patterns like sofa cushions. When his subject is Nat Turner’s 1831 Virginia slave rebellion, these comfortably clashing domestic textures are a reminder that racial injustice has always been a defining feature of the American landscape. But the quilts, in “Ruminations and a Reckoning” at the Baltimore Museum of Art, are also a visually arresting reversal of the usual distinction between foreground and background that makes the starkly outlined figures leap out like avenging angels. WILL HEINRICH
March 7; musicof.org
In 2010, the soul singer Bettye LaVette covered Led Zeppelin’s soft-rock ballad “All My Love,” laying bare the slow-burning flame at the song’s core. It’s a revelatory reinterpretation, and a poetic one, given those British rock titans’ frequent invocation of African-American musical traditions on their records.
Ms. LaVette’s performance is sure to be a highlight of “The Music of Led Zeppelin,” an all-star show at Carnegie Hall this Wednesday. Joining her on the bill are the ’90s indie-rock icon J. Mascis, the ’60s psychedelic-pop group the Zombies, and the ’80s funk-metal act Living Colour, among many others.
It’s the latest in a long-running series of tribute concerts organized by Michael Dorf, with all proceeds benefiting music education (though presumably of a different kind than the “schooling” that Led Zeppelin’s Robert Plant sang about on 1969’s “Whole Lotta Love”). SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSON
After a painfully dark — some would say unflinchingly realistic — first season, viewers could be forgiven for squirming away from HBO’s “Divorce,” starring Sarah Jessica Parker and Thomas Haden Church as Frances and Robert DuFresne, New York suburbanites putting their marriage out of its misery. But those who’ve braved Round 2 have been rewarded with sunbeams through parting clouds. The papers are signed, leaving the couple free to move on to other partners (Steven Pasquale for her, Becki Newton for him) and, perhaps more important, to become the better people they somehow couldn’t muster in each other’s company.
It’s almost enough to make you wonder if they’ve been hasty in calling the whole thing off. Alas, it’s not over until it’s officially over. There’s still no word on whether “Divorce” — whose flagging ratings got a midseason bump after Frances and Robert ended up, briefly, back in each other’s arms — has been renewed for a third installment. But whatever the show’s fate, the Season 2 finale, airing Sunday, March 4, offers a bittersweet denouement. Just “don’t start dressing that carriage just yet,” Mr. Church said in a Times interview. “We never know what can happen in the post-mortem of that divorce.” KATHRYN SHATTUCK
March 6-25, ptamd.org.
In 2015 the Paul Taylor Dance Company began expanding its repertory beyond the works of its founder, ushering in a more eclectic era for a troupe historically devoted to a single artist’s vision. Under the heading Paul Taylor American Modern Dance, the company returns to the David H. Koch Theater at Lincoln Center with new works by Doug Varone and Bryan Arias; guest visits by the New York City Ballet principal Sara Mearns and the Trisha Brown Dance Company; and more than a dozen dances by Mr. Taylor, including his 147th and newest, “Concertiana.”
The opening week brings the premieres of Mr. Arias’s “The Beauty in Gray” — sharing the March 8 gala program with Mr. Taylor’s “Arden Court” and “Esplanade”— and Mr. Varone’s “Half Life” (March 10). But the most exciting offerings come later in the season: Ms. Mearns in “Dances of Isadora,” a suite of solos by the modern dance pioneer Isadora Duncan (staged by Lori Belilove), and the Trisha Brown Dance Company in Ms. Brown’s propulsive 1983 masterpiece, “Set and Reset.” SIOBHAN BURKE
March 5 to 19; www.kennedy-center.org.
Under the direction of Deborah Rutter, the traditionalist Kennedy Center in Washington has inched into the 21st century: In recent seasons, it has engaged compelling artists like Q-Tip and Jason Moran to oversee programming across genres. The latest initiative is the new festival Direct Current, a celebration of contemporary culture that ranges from the performance artist Taylor Mac (March 6) to the hip-hop duo Shabazz Palaces (March 17).
The festival’s most promising contemporary classical offerings include music by John Cage and Viet Cuong, played by the ensemble So Percussion (March 9); a survey of Philip Glass’s complete études by a team of pianists including Mr. Moran and Mr. Glass (March 9); Julia Wolfe’s Pulitzer Prize-winning “Anthracite Fields” (March 13); and the environmentalist documentary “The Colorado,” featuring live music from Roomful of Teeth (March 18). The biggest ticket, though, may be the National Symphony Orchestra performing John Adams’s potent oratorio “The Gospel According to the Other Mary” under Gianandrea Noseda, himself in the midst of a promising first season as the orchestra’s music director (March 8 and 10). WILLIAM ROBIN
Through April 8; actorstheatre.org
The annual migration is a sign of spring — theater people flocking to Kentucky for a first look at fresh work in the Humana Festival of New American Plays at Actors Theater of Louisville. A long track record of boldface names and significant plays is what makes it worth the trip. Lucas Hnath, a Tony Award nominee last spring for “A Doll’s House, Part 2,” brought “The Christians” there for its world premiere a few seasons back. Branden Jacobs-Jenkins (“An Octoroon”) was there with “Appropriate” in 2013, a year before that play appeared Off Broadway. This year’s festival, the 42nd, will be the last as artistic director for Les Waters, who is leaving Actors Theater this summer.
His directorial swan song will be Mark Schultz’s “Evocation to Visible Appearance,” part of a program of six world premieres, including Leah Nanako Winkler’s “God Said This”; Deborah Stein’s “Marginal Loss”; Mara Nelson-Greenberg‘s “Do You Feel Anger?”; Susan Soon He Stanton’s “we, the invisibles”; and “You Across From Me,” a play with four authors (Jaclyn Backhaus, Dipika Guha, Brian Otaño and Jason Gray Platt) which, fittingly enough, explores coming to the table together. LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES
Advertisement