
Advertisement
Supported by
By Jeremy W. Peters and Maggie Haberman
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s staff tried to be reassuring. Stop focusing, they told jittery allies, on the sound bites from the White House Cabinet Room earlier this week when Mr. Trump appeared to embrace longstanding conservative taboos like gun confiscation and comprehensive background checks.
“He has an A-plus rating from the N.R.A. because he made specific promises,” Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor and one of those on the president’s staff who has tried to ease the anxiety on the right, said on Friday. “He understands the overlap between gun owners and those voters who supported him,” she insisted, adding, “Nobody’s making legislative policy in the Cabinet Room.”
And now, after a brief flirtation with gun control that was more of a freestyle riff than a formal statement of principle, the National Rifle Association and Mr. Trump appear to be back on the same page. Their reconciliation came after an Oval Office meeting on Thursday night with Mr. Trump, top White House aides and the N.R.A.’s president and chief lobbyist. They spoke “cordially,” said one person with knowledge of the discussion, and left in good spirits, though this person added that Mr. Trump said he still could not understand why an 18-year-old could buy an assault rifle but not a handgun.
Ms. Conway said that no one should expect the president and the N.R.A. to be in lock step on every issue, but that they remained generally in sync.
“There will be broad agreement absent perfect alignment,” she said. “And that sounds like any relationship.”
Given Mr. Trump’s history of abruptly reversing himself, no one can be sure what type of gun legislation he might actually sign if a bill ever makes it to his desk. And that uncertainty has reawakened old anxieties about the sincerity of his political promises. His next move on guns will test his relationship with one of the most loyal and powerful elements of his base.
Republican strategists say that movement in polling for tighter restrictions on gun sales has been notable among Republican voters, a shift that they say is because Mr. Trump has spoken out about it — he is probably the only major figure who can move Republican voters on an issue.
But the president’s connection with gun owners and their culture — which is infused with a sense of mistrust and grievance that he both feeds on and shares — suggests that he will be loath to betray this group of people he has repeatedly promised, “I will never, ever let you down.”
Representative Mark Meadows, a North Carolina Republican who speaks regularly with the president as the leader of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, said that he believed what is weighing on Mr. Trump now is “less the N.R.A. than the Trump voter.”
The dilemma for Mr. Trump is that those are often the same thing.
He is facing pressure from lawmakers in both parties to go further in restricting weapons than the N.R.A. would like. And he seems to appreciate that he has a unique ability to sway skeptical Republicans given that conservatives largely trust him on the issue in a way they never did with Barack Obama. “There’s one president since I’ve been involved in any of this that can get this done,” said Senator Joe Manchin III, the West Virginia Democrat who co-wrote the last major gun control bill to come to a vote in the Senate in 2013. “And it’s him.”
The ties between him and the millions of Americans for whom gun ownership is a personal and political consideration are stronger and more natural than many Republicans could have predicted when he first started running for president in 2015.
Mr. Trump had supported an assault weapons ban and at one point appeared to wish that there were no guns at all in the United States. He told CNN’s Larry King in a 1999 interview, “There’s nothing I like better than nobody has them, but that’s not going to happen.”
But by the time of his 2016 campaign, a formal working relationship became a matter of political necessity on both ends — gun activists who were single-mindedly determined to stop four more years of a Democratic president and a candidate who needed the validation and grass-roots muscle that a conservative powerhouse like the N.R.A. could offer.
Mr. Trump came to appreciate the potency that gun rights — and the fear of having them stripped away — had with many of his supporters. And it became an extension of the cultural battles he eagerly threw himself into.
“It was very much a culture thing,” said David Bossie, who was Mr. Trump’s deputy campaign manager. Gun owners tended to be cut from the same blue-collar cloth that held together Mr. Trump’s core constituency. They gravitated toward his tough talk on defending the Second Amendment in the same way they did on other issues like crime, trade and illegal immigration.
“He had this connection to people who felt like he cared about them, their well-being, their family, safety and security,” Mr. Bossie added.
In guns, Mr. Trump found an issue very similar in its emotional pull to immigration. It appealed to voters who believed that Democrats ignored the concerns of people like them and were hostile to their beliefs and culture. It fed a sense that the government was pursuing policies that would ultimately hurt them. And at its most extreme, it fanned the fear that a seemingly unstoppable force was on the verge of snatching away life as they knew it — their understanding of what it meant to be American.
These sentiments appealed to Mr. Trump, who has always tended to believe in conspiracies, especially ones hatched to undermine him.
As simpatico as the relationship appears now, the N.R.A.’s backing of Mr. Trump in May 2016 was not a universally popular move among the membership. First, it was highly unusual. The group typically waited until the general election was well underway before getting involved in a presidential campaign. Second, it irritated many members who felt that the N.R.A. was rushing toward an endorsement before the deep wounds of a bitter Republican primary had healed.
Unlike many social conservatives and evangelical Christians who remained wary of Mr. Trump — some of them right up until Election Day — the N.R.A. decided early on that it had too much at stake in the election not to back Hillary Clinton’s opponent, whoever that may be.
Especially significant for the group was the fact that gun rights were at a tipping point on the Supreme Court after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, the author of the court’s opinion in District of Columbia v. Heller, the landmark case that held that the Second Amendment protected the right to keep a loaded handgun at home for self-defense.
Through more than $30 million in spending to support Mr. Trump, the N.R.A.’s political arm turned into a virtual “super PAC” for him, attacking Mrs. Clinton in the same way Mr. Trump did — as someone who would leave women vulnerable to attackers in their home by taking away their guns and who botched the response to the attacks in Benghazi, Libya.
Current and former aides to Mr. Trump say that he loved the adoration that N.R.A. crowds would shower on him. After speaking at the group’s annual meeting in Atlanta last year, one person who was with him described him as “levitating” with joy.
“You came through for me, and I am going to come through for you,” he told the crowd.
Grover Norquist, the anti-tax activist who is also an N.R.A. board member, said the speech underscored for him that Mr. Trump had a relationship with gun owners unlike that of one he could recall with any other president. Mr. Trump spoke the language, calling the Second Amendment “a sacred right” and reassuring them that “the eight-year assault on your Second Amendment freedoms has come to a crashing end.”
“It was a very bonding moment,” Mr. Norquist said, adding that Mr. Trump, who had a concealed gun permit when he lived in New York, did not have to fake it as so many other Republicans often do.
“That was the connection people wanted. They didn’t want to hear you’re a hunter. They wanted to hear you were one of them.”
Jeremy W. Peters reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.




Advertisement