
Advertisement
Supported by
Open Thread
By Vanessa Friedman
Each week, the Open Thread newsletter will offer a look from across The New York Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman as your personal shopper. The latest newsletter appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here.
Greetings from Paris and happy March. It’s Oscars minus two, but you’d never know it here. There’s been some talk of viewing parties and staying up, but given the nine-hour time difference, the chances are slim. I usually make it to the first half hour or so of arrivals, and then my bleary eyes just give up.
Missing the red carpet makes me almost as sad as missing the Olympics.
Especially this year, given how big a role red carpets have played in the #MeToo conversation. The Oscars is not going to be a black-dress moment according to all reports, nor is it about white roses, so it will be especially interesting to see what part, if any, clothing will have this time around.
The Oscars’ overlap with Paris Fashion Week also means there has been a smaller celebrity presence at the shows (they’re all detoxing before Sunday). This is a good thing, in part because it makes it easier to focus on what’s on the runway — even with the surprise industry news that Burberry had appointed a new designer to replace Christopher Bailey, an announcement no one had expected.
But then, they hadn’t expected the guy who got the job either.
And it is … drumroll please … Riccardo Tisci, the Italian former creative director of Givenchy. Mr. Tisci had been out of a job since January of 2017, and he is known for his gothic-meets-street-meets-haute sensibility, as well as his friendships with various Kardashians, so it was an interesting choice for the brand that Britishness built. And it hadn’t been gossiped about or leaked before, which is pretty amazing in the sieve that fashion has become.
Anyway, the reaction on the front row, after everyone picked their jaw up off the floor, was genuinely positive.
This is both because people are excited to see what Mr. Tisci will do come next September, and because there was some fear that he would become part of what is shaping up to be a generation of lost designers: names like Alber Elbaz (ex-Lanvin), Peter Copping (ex-Oscar de la Renta), Stefano Pilati (ex-YSL and Zegna), Frida Giannini (ex-Gucci) and Marco Zanini (ex-Schiaparelli), all of whom have real talent, and all of whom are without full-time jobs.
That’s a longer discussion, however. In the meantime, check out this piece on Justin Trudeau’s Bollywood style during his recent trip to India, meet Saint Laurent’s real power woman, catch up on the reviews — and have a great weekend.
Every week on Open Thread, Vanessa will answer a reader’s fashion-related question, which you can send to her anytime via email or Twitter. Questions are edited and condensed.
Q: Could you possibly explain why most models look sullen, at best? Is there some philosophy around those expressions? — Holly, Oregon
A: This is a question I get asked at least once a season. There are designers who do ask their models to smile (or at least appear upbeat), but they are in the minority, for a few reasons.
First, many are creating clothes that they see as armor or at least protection for the wearer, and they want to imbue them with a certain fierce presence, which usually translates as fierce — i.e. sullen — stares.
Second, being a model on a runway is a bit like being a gladiator in the coliseum: stared at by a rapacious throng, often wearing a revealing costume you are not entirely convinced of; either too hot or too freezing; in pain because your sample-size shoes don’t fit; and sometimes terrified you are going to fall on your face. You’d be cranky too.
And third — and I am speaking from experience here — fake smiles are worse than real frowns. By a long shot. I have been at shows were the models were told to skip and play, and with their frozen, unnatural grins, they looked like they were having a psychotic episode.
The fact is, the expression you refer to may simply be the fashion equivalent of R.B.F. We should support it. — VANESSA FRIEDMAN
Like what you see here? Submit any feedback to openthread@nytimes.com.



Advertisement