

                Tech Tip            
By                     
                                    J. D. BIERSDORFER
                            
                MARCH 2, 2018
    
Q. Can Windows 10 track how much time a child spends playing games?
A. If the child is using a specially configured Microsoft account, the “family” feature built into Windows 10 can compile reports about how a session was spent — including any games played on the computer or on an Xbox One console. These activity reports are emailed to a parent’s account and list the games and apps used by the child, along with the websites browsed. The keywords used on search engines are also noted — as long as either the Microsoft Edge or Internet Explorer browser was used.
The Windows 10 parental controls can set limits on a child’s screen time, as well as the types of content available without getting permission. To set up the family options, a parent needs to be signed into a Windows 10 PC with a Microsoft account. The parent then needs to create a separate Microsoft account for the child — and persuade the child to log in and use it.
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
To set up the child’s account, go to the Start menu, select the gear-shaped Settings icon and choose Accounts. On the Accounts screen, select “Family & other people” and then “Add a family member.” Choose “Add a child.” If the child does not have a personal email address already, you can create one here. The child uses this address to log into the new Windows 10 account.
Parents can manage children’s accounts online. The Windows 10 Settings area has a link to the Family options, too. A quick way to get there is to tell the Cortana assistant to open the Windows Defender Security Center and then tap Family options.
Mac-owning families have similar parental controls built into Apple’s operating system. To set them up, open the System Preferences icon in the Mac’s desktop dock (or under the Apple menu in the upper-left corner of the screen) and click the Parental Controls icon.
Third-party parental control programs like Net Nanny and Qustodio cost money, but these programs typically offer a wider range of protection and tools to monitor young users.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »