
Advertisement
Supported by
A reader has eight years to go until retirement, at a job that has become almost unbearable. Is it better to explore other options even if that means taking a step backward, or to play it safe and ride it out?
By Rob Walker
Send your workplace conundrums to workologist@nytimes.com, including your name and contact information (even if you want it withheld). The Workologist is a guy with well-intentioned opinions, not a professional career adviser. Letters may be edited.
I have worked for the same large company for 12 years, ever since entering my current field. It’s a great company and the job is mostly fulfilling, but it can also be stressful. There is a lot of travel (weekends included), which puts a strain on my personal relationships. And while management talks about work-life balance, the true workaholics are rewarded with bonuses.
I recently took about six weeks off for some minor surgery. This was the first real break from work travel since joining the company. I really enjoyed working from my home office, spending more time with family and friends. I felt relaxed and energized.
Now I am back on the road again and having a hard time. I am sleeping poorly, have developed migraines and find that the multiple demands on my time make me anxious. At my own request, I am working on a project I thought would get me more home-office time, but it just added to my travel schedule. I am working evenings and weekends to catch up.
I am in my mid 50s, and if I keep it up, I can retire in about eight years — but worry about my physical and mental health holding out. My position is very specialized, so I don’t think there is another job at this company that I can transfer to. I don’t want to return to the field I left. I think it is too late and too expensive to go back to school. What to do?
ANONYMOUS
This strikes me as an extreme example of what I suspect is a widespread issue. We could call it The Home Stretch Problem: The finish line of retirement is in sight, but getting there is going to be unpleasant at best. Is it better to risk making a change that could improve your work life — or to grit your teeth and ride it out?
Mike Lewis, author of the recent book, “When To Jump: If the Job You Have Isn’t the Life You Want,” offers some useful thoughts, drawn from his conversations with dozens of people who have switched careers at some point in their work lives. It’s possible, he concedes, that a particular job might be so specialized, or perhaps tied to a lucrative “golden handcuffs” situation, that sticking with the shortest road to retirement makes sense.
But, Mr. Lewis continues, while it’s easy to convince yourself that you have no options, that’s probably more rare than you think — and it’s worth putting your assumption to the test. Look for “wiggle room,” as he puts it: Be open-mind and creative about how your skills could be applied to positions that may not be a perfect match, but that have some overlap.
This means considering what could be more of a lateral move, or even a minor step back — maybe putting you ten years from retirement instead of eight. “Ten years is going to feel like five if it’s something you prefer doing,” Mr. Lewis argues. “And eight years is going to feel like 16 if you’re stuck doing what you don’t want to do.”
Think about both your core skills, and your unique knowledge. Might those skills work in another field? Might your knowledge be valuable in another position in your current field? Are you certain your company couldn’t use your skills in another capacity? Research every possible option and how you’d make your move. Mr. Lewis calls this “pre-jump practice.”
Even this process of assertively exploring options will feel more productive and hopeful than just giving up. It’s quite easy to find friends and colleagues who will advise against taking a chance. But remember that sometimes, Mr. Lewis says, “those people probably secretly wish they did it.” So think hard about which you’ll regret more: trying to make a change, or preemptively deciding you can’t.
The guidance you gave to the reader who was able to retire early and has gotten bored was valid, but missed one key opportunity: high-level volunteer work. Many of us in similar circumstances serve on volunteer boards, political campaigns and civic projects. These opportunities abound.
SETH MORRISON, LAS VEGAS
Quite a few readers made similar points (although many were much less polite!). While I did actually mention volunteering, it’s true that I didn’t emphasize it. And of course it can be a great idea.
More specifically, multiple readers mentioned the nonprofit Score, or Service Corps of Retired Executives, which connects volunteers with small businesses seeking advice or mentorship. A couple mentioned Encore.org, a nonprofit that aims to help retirees find “second acts” that aid their communities. And others pointed to Executive Service Corps, which connects high-skill volunteers to nonprofits.
Plenty of readers offered their own stories: One signed on with AmeriCorps, another founded an arts festival, a few took up teaching. Others suggested working with hospitals, libraries, food pantries, or idealistic start-ups. “So many things need to be done,” one wrote. Who could disagree?
Advertisement