
Advertisement
Supported by
The new Book It List program specializes in unusual stays, from a lighthouse in Massachusetts to a shrimp boat in South Carolina.
By Shivani Vora
Will travelers want to stay in a castle in Kentucky, a former jail in New Orleans or a lighthouse in Massachusetts? Booking.com, an accommodation booking site with a database of more than 1.5 million properties, is betting on a “yes.” The three are part of the site’s Book It List, debuting today, which is a collection of not-so-common places around the United States where guests can hang their hat for a night or more; the list has one option in each state.
The company is kicking off this new category by selling one-night stays for March 8 in three venues that  have never before offered overnight accommodations: a suite on the 80th floor of the Empire State Building, in New York; a suite at the AmericanAirlines Arena, in Miami; and a tour bus in Los Angeles that the musician Nick Jonas helped design. Each stay costs $1,500.
While these are one-time bookings, the permanent possibilities on the Book It List include a man-made cave in New Mexico, a treehouse in Ohio, a base camp in Alaska and a shrimp boat in South Carolina. The list’s properties are in diverse locales ranging from major cities and the mountains to the coast and remote countryside, and prices for a night’s stay range from affordable to extravagant.
It costs $65 a night, for example, to stay at the 12-room Town Hall Inn, in Lead, S.D., in the heart of the Black Hills. Originally constructed in 1912 as Lead’s town hall, the building was used for several purposes over the years including the mayor’s and treasurer’s office, a jail, judge’s chambers and even gallows, which were directly behind the building.
On the other end of the spectrum, there’s a century-old family farm in Dyersville, Iowa, where the popular 1989 movie “Field of Dreams” was filmed. Tours of the property have been offered for several years, but for the first time, travelers who are willing to pay $2,200 will be able to spend the night in the farmhouse’s upstairs bedroom.
Pepijn Rijvers, the chief marketing officer for Booking.com, said that the company introduced the Book It List after noticing that its customers were increasingly reserving stays through the site at independently owned small hotels and nontraditional properties such as yurts and tree houses. “We were getting more bookings for accommodations that were perceived to be different or unusual than we were for the big chain hotels,” he said.
The company decided to do a formal survey to find out more, and the results confirmed the trend that it was seeing: from a pool of 56,272 respondents, 22 percent of United States residents and 37 percent of people living in other countries reported that they intended to stay in a unique location in 2018 such as a castle or treehouse.
Incidentally, Airbnb’s 2018 Travel Trends report also found that travelers were increasingly booking stays in nontraditional accommodations such as yurts and ryokans.  
Mr. Rijvers said that Booking.com relied on more than 400 of its employees in the United States to find the properties for the list and that it’s intended to get Americans excited about traveling within the country. “We’re hoping that we’re enticing people who live in the U.S. to visit new destinations because of these unusual properties,” he said.
The Book It List may be a clever marketing tool, but it’s a useful one, according to Dr. Bjorn Hanson, a professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality at New York University. In his research on the factors that motivate travelers when they choose their accommodations, he found that while location, price and loyalty programs figure in, so does a property’s Instagram potential. “Travelers, more than ever before, want to be able to brag to their family and friends about the cool place they stayed in that few others have, and what Booking.com is offering definitely qualifies,” Dr. Hanson said.
Advertisement