
Advertisement
Supported by
What You Get

24 Photos
View Slide Show ›
Ren Nickson
By Julie Lasky
WHAT A barn-inspired house with three bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms
HOW MUCH $650,000
SIZE 2,381 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $273
SETTING Built along the remains of an antique stone foundation, this home is on a dirt road about a 20-minute walk from the center of West Stockbridge. It is surrounded by protected land and near an old apple orchard.
INDOORS Designed by Clark + Green, a local architecture firm, the house is owned by the former director of Jacob’s Pillow, the international dance festival and school. The central portion is an open living-and-dining area with a vaulted ceiling, windowed walls and a wood-burning stove. The kitchen is demarcated by a peninsula with a built-in range and has marble countertops — one of several places the locally quarried stone is incorporated throughout the home.
This floor also has a powder room, a large bedroom with an en-suite bathroom and access to a two-story-high indoor porch whose walls are pierced by scattered windows that give the building a dynamic appearance.
Upstairs are two bedrooms, a full bathroom and a mezzanine overlooking the great room, with space that could be used as an office. Below the main level is a light-filled all-purpose room with outdoor access; an adjoining bathroom has radiant-heat floors and a large soaking tub.
OUTDOOR SPACE The .58-acre property is professionally landscaped and has mature trees, stone benches and a yard with an invisible fence.
TAXES $5,637 (2017)
CONTACT Maggie Merelle, William Pitt Sotheby’s International Realty, 413-717-0717; williampitt.com
WHAT A renovated 1950 house with three bedrooms and three bathrooms
HOW MUCH $635,000
SIZE 1,260 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $504
SETTING This home is in the Cherrywood neighborhood, near the rapidly developing Mueller Tower District, the site of Austin’s old municipal airport. The University of Texas campus is two miles west, along Manor Road, with its numerous restaurants. Boggy Creek runs along the edge of the property.
INDOORS A thorough renovation involved updated electrical and plumbing systems, a new roof and siding and the addition of a front porch with built-in planters and a pergola. A large room with a combined living and dining area terminates in a new kitchen with a long peninsula. French doors lead to a large backyard deck with a shaded area.
Off the main room are the master bedroom with a new en-suite bathroom, and a guest bedroom and second new bathroom. An external flight of stairs leads to a private third bedroom that could be used as a guest room or rented. It has an in-room sink, stall shower and water closet.
OUTDOOR SPACE The .29-acre property includes a cedar-fenced yard with a driveway gate. An outbuilding could be used as a one-car garage or a “game hangar” with a Ping-Pong table or other recreations. The structure has a screened porch with views of Boggy Creek.
TAXES $9,588 (estimated)
CONTACT Mark Strüb, Strüb Residential, 512-922-8992; 3505grayson.com
WHAT A former carriage house built in 1932, with three bedrooms and two bathrooms
HOW MUCH $650,000
SIZE 1,755 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $370
SETTING The home is in the Chestnut Hill district, on an 18th-century road that winds through nearby Fairmount Park. The Morris Arboretum, Woodmere Art Museum and Chestnut Hill College are all within walking distance. Two stations on the SEPTA regional rail line are each a mile away.
INDOORS The front entrance of the stone-and-stucco home takes you into a foyer with large coat closet. From the foyer, you enter a combined living and dining area with parquet floors, built-in bookshelves and a wood-burning fireplace. The adjoining den has a picture window, as well as access to a large closet and a full bathroom; it could be used as a third bedroom. The eat-in kitchen has extensive cabinetry and counter space, and a Dutch door leading to a stone outdoor patio.
The two upstairs bedrooms have hardwood floors and canted walls. One bedroom has access through a Dutch door to a small outdoor porch.
OUTDOOR SPACE Part of an estate that was divided in the 1950s, the home is set far back from the road, where the original main house is. Because it is surrounded by the large wooded properties of other homes, it appears to have more space than its half-acre lot. A second stone patio is reached from the living room.
TAXES $5,851 (2017)
CONTACT Janice Manzi, Elfant Wissahickon Realtors, 215-680-7616; searchelfantwissahickon.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.



Advertisement