

                Tech Tip            
By                     
                                    J. D. BIERSDORFER
                            
                MARCH 7, 2018
    
Q. I want to buy a lightweight laptop, but I need to use CDs and DVDs, which none of these models have anymore. Is there any way to still use discs with these tiny computers?
A. When it comes to modern laptop design, many manufacturers have tossed disc drives onto the same pile with floppy drives, Ethernet jacks and other technology considered obsolete — thanks to cloud servers and wireless networks that have taken over a laptop’s data storage and internet connection needs. The quest for smaller, lighter laptops with maximum space on the inside for a rechargeable battery has also pushed out these once-standard computer components.
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Still, as with adding back ports to these streamlined laptops, you can get external hardware to do the job. The ports on some newer laptop models may be limited to USB-C plugs only, so make sure you know what type of connectors work with the laptop you plan to buy. (If your preferred disc drive model does not have a connector that matches your laptop, you can get an adapter.)
Major hardware makers, including Apple and Dell, sell their own external disc drives designed to work with their laptops, but you can likely find less expensive hardware from other manufacturers. Some add-on drives can be a little too cheap, however, so be sure to read the reviews before buying.
Wirecutter, a product recommendation site owned by The New York Times, tested a variety of external disc drives and picked a $25 portable CD/DVD burner made by LG Electronics (the LG GP65NB60 model) as its top choice. For those who want Blu-ray disc compatibility along with CD and DVD playback and recording, the site recommends the Pioneer BDR-XD05B, which sells for around $90.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »