
By HAYLEY KRISCHERMARCH 7, 2018

I keep the dress my grandmother wore to my parents’ wedding from 1970 in a tiny front hall closet. It’s a full-length lace, rhinestone-adorned, tunic-neck and ivory gown weighing about 15 pounds.
While it’s a common tradition to save a wedding dress — one woman was the 11th person in her family to wear a Victorian-era gown from 1895 — it’s not so common to save a mother-of-the bride dress.
My grandmother’s mother-of-the-bride dress is the only intact relic from my parents’ wedding. My mother didn’t save her wedding dress. “You wouldn’t have wanted to wear it anyway,” she told me once. “Bad luck.” My parents got divorced when I was 8.
My grandmother gave me her gown before she died. In truth, there wasn’t much to the exchange. She said, “Here take this.” So I took it. I had always been mystified by the gown. I remember as a child gazing longingly at it in her narrow carpeted walk-in closet, which was packed with her platform shoes and caftans and baubles.
My grandmother was informed by the Depression era. You didn’t spend unless there was a reason to spend. This was a reason. Her daughter, her baby, was getting married. There was a wedding reception to be held. It would be a masterpiece. Candid’s by Valeche (as it’s inscribed on the inside of the front cover of the album), the well-known Brooklyn photographer. All white. White flowers. White bridesmaid dresses. (“An all-white wedding was unheard-of in the ’70s,” my grandmother told me many times throughout my childhood when she spoke of the event.)
Advertisement
This was a vital moment in my grandmother’s life. In any mother’s life. Her daughter’s wedding! It’s what every Jewish mother hopes for. That her daughter marry a nice Jewish boy.
Advertisement
So what that my mother was uncertain about the marriage?
“I don’t think this is a good idea,” my mother said to her father just as he was about to walk her down the aisle.
“It’s normal,” he told her. “Everyone gets nervous at their wedding.”
There’s a picture of the moment after that exchange in my parents’ white leather-bound wedding album, now water stained and rotting. My mother’s face serious and taut as her father walked her down the aisle. Never mind her nerves or second thoughts. There was cultural pressure on my mother to get married. A classic mid-19th-century scenario. My mother was 24. Practically over the hill.
My mother, with a partial wig (called a fall back then), her ice-blue eye shadow and nude lips; her 12-foot veil and her high-neck lace dress would be stunning. My grandmother would be Liberace meets “Vertigo”-era Kim Novak.
The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That their grand wedding produced a seven-year marriage and that my grandmother’s gown hangs under a plastic sheath like a heavily beaded skeleton in my closet is practically a Shakespearean tragedy.
My grandmother was a businesswoman. She started her own travel agency in the late 1960s after my grandfather retired from the garment industry. She sent me postcards from exotic places like Hong Kong, Kiev, Montenegro and Bora Bora. (Eventually, I had a collection of T-shirts that had phrases like, “I climbed the Great Wall of China.”)
My grandfather collected hole-in-one trophies on the golf course and spent hours at the track or playing blackjack at the club. She played cards too, but the women bored her. When they weren’t traveling, she complained that my grandfather wouldn’t go anywhere. “He’ll go to South Africa with me, but won’t take a ride to Palm Beach,” she used to say.
During weeklong visits to their home in Florida, my three cousins and brother and I wreaked havoc in the kitchen while she cooked a casserole or beef barley soup. A long telephone cord stretched from counter to counter as she pacified a frantic client calling from overseas who didn’t get a room with the best view. “No one is happy unless they change their room at least once, sometimes twice,” she would say.
Advertisement
My grandfather would sit at the head of the kitchen table waiting to be served, smoking his Winstons. Sometimes he took us fishing. She worked until she was 89 years old, up until four months before her death.
I took out my own wedding dress recently. It’s folded on a shelf in my bedroom closet. It was a simple J. Crew frock. There’s a stain on the ribbon. Complete with wrinkles. I wore it to my second marriage, to the man I’ve been married to now for 10 years. The wedding was at our house, decorated with flowers that I bought from the supermarket. We drank champagne and sang karaoke in the living room. I made my own huppah with four large birch branches and a tablecloth.
It would be laughable to compare my drapelike smock to my grandmother’s white gown. Or compare the wedding I planned for myself to the wedding my grandmother planned for my mother. It would be like pairing up a dewy-eyed foal with a racehorse.
Her dress is more than just a relic of my parent’s wedding. The dress is symbolic of my grandmother’s tenacity. It’s a legacy of her determination.
I know I should preserve my grandmother’s gown in an acid-free box with acid-free tissue, as someone suggested on Instagram. But if it were stored away in a box, I wouldn’t see it hanging, this prized possession, in all of its glittering glory when I open the closet door. This way, I can always catch a peek of it. This way, I can always catch a peek of her.
Are there any keepsakes that you just can’t bear to throw away from your wedding or relationship? We’d love to see. Please share a photo and a brief description of that item you just can’t get rid of HERE.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows) and Instagram.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.