
Advertisement
Supported by
By Reyhan Harmanci
“You look really cute,” the coffee shop barista said to me, handing over a pastry.
“You just look so cute,” my co-worker said when I came in, late, to our daily meeting. “Can I hug you? I have to hug you. You’re just so. …” My friend’s voice trailed off, smothered by the weight of our embrace.
But she didn’t have to finish the sentence. We both knew. I looked cute.
Had I gone on a makeover show? Got a fabulous hairstyle? Splurged on some amazing new designer? No. It was late November, I was six months pregnant and wearing $15 overalls. It is not an overstatement that I found myself on the receiving end of more positive attention for my looks during that first week in overalls than at any point in my life — not on my wedding day, not at prom, not when I wore my first choker necklace in the eighth grade or got an extremely cool eyebrow piercing during a college term abroad.
When you’re living with a growing, changing and visibly pregnant body, body image gets weird. For me, gaining weight was more emotionally arduous than I would have thought. Pulling on pants that were straining in the thighs as well as stomach, for instance, was irrationally troubling. Maybe the wave of positive attention felt extra profound because I was struggling with my new topography more than I wanted to admit.
But after months of near-daily clothing experimentation (eventually the black overalls were joined by a pair of blue corduroy overalls), I can say with some certainty that maternity overalls guarantee a remarkable emotional response from their beholders. They are adorable in the same way that puppies and kittens are adorable — in a primal way.
This is not news to those who sell them. Work wear, in general, has invaded mainstream women’s fashion, but overalls occupy a special place for the pregnant. The Cut has made a special guide to buying them; the online retailer ASOS introduced maternity overalls in 2015 and sales have risen every season since. When Ariane Goldman began Hatch, her upscale maternity company, in 2012, she had a onesie in the original collection of 12 items.
“It was a street stopper,” she said in a phone interview. The shop added variations on the onesie theme to seasonal collections, but it wasn’t until 2016, in a collaboration with Current/Elliott denim, that Hatch began selling overalls. Immediately, the pieces sold out, a fact that Ms. Goldman said was, frankly, a bit surprising, given the price tag of $178. For spring, Hatch offers no fewer than five new styles of jumpers alone, in a multitude of colors and fabrics.
Maternity overalls offer many tangible benefits. They are comfortable, with a lack of waistband and adjustable straps. They can be quite economical for a piece that serves as both top and bottom (starting at $48 on ASOS, for instance, which has some 11 versions for sale). Some people, like my friend Jessie Cohen in Los Angeles, just adapted nonmaternity overalls for even more savings. (“I cannot tell you how many compliments I got.”) Others, like the lifestyle blogger Caroline Harper Knapp, see a future filled with overalls even after birth.
“My only disappointment with these maternity overalls,” she said at the end of 2015, “is that I didn’t order them earlier in my pregnancy. I am obsessed.”
But beyond utility, maternity overalls have a deeper appeal. When I wear them, not only do people want to remark upon them, but they also want to touch me. (People often want to touch you when you’re pregnant and don’t always feel the need to ask.) This didn’t come as a total shock because, a few years ago, I had a good friend who often wore maternity overalls, and every time I saw her, something deep within me stirred.
She’s a petite person, and the sight of her, belly protruding, turned me into some kind of handsy version of the creature from “Pan’s Labyrinth,” gawking at the outfit, commenting on it, awkwardly throwing my arm around her shoulders, hugging hello and goodbye and hello and goodbye.
At the time, I thought it was just that she was so damn squeezable in them, but now I think it’s not really about any one person looking great (or cute). There’s something of Freud’s “uncanny” in clothing like overalls or a onesie that puts a pregnant woman in a toddler’s outfit. There’s no cleavage in overalls; there are barely legs. The fact of a pregnant stomach is not hidden, at all, by the shape of the clothing, but unless the overalls are somehow fitted, the exact contours of one’s body remain fuzzy.
It’s a profoundly mixed signal: the ultimate sign of physical female maturity coupled with clothing that de-emphasizes female sexuality. As Ms. Goldman put it, “Overalls allow these two moments to meet.”
Over time, of course, my overalls’ magic ego-giving power has dimmed. My friends and co-workers stopped paying attention to them, likely through the sheer repetition of their rotation in my wardrobe. (No shame, it seems, in rocking the same piece of clothing to work three or more days in a row, or wearing the same overalls and T-shirt to your baby shower, wedding rehearsal dinner and public speaking engagement.)
Moreover, at some point, your body tips into a proportion that is more alarming than appealing — eight months in, I look like a dinosaur egg balanced on a two dock pilings, close enough to giving birth that some New Yorkers will even surrender a subway seat. But, still, just last week, I walked into a Starbucks near work. The woman gave me a long look while ringing me up. “You look really nice today,” she said.
I beamed, spilled some coffee on the overalls and dumped my wallet’s remaining coins into her tip jar. Still got it.
Advertisement