
By VALENCIA PRASHADMARCH 9, 2018

Pops of green can beautify a home or work space. But some people have a deeper connection to plants, and see them as more than just décor — as living beings.
Joe Sasto, the contestant with the epic mustache who recently made it to the final three on the latest season of “Top Chef,” is one of those people.
For him, the connection is familial.
“I’m a plant father,” the 30-year-old chef announced proudly on air, using a term that would not sound strange to Instagram’s #plantparents.
The Los Angeles apartment Mr. Sasto shares with his girlfriend, Bella Bennett, and their cat, Uni, is also home to about 50 plants that are “like family” and have their own personalities, he said. “I know each one of them very personally.”
Advertisement
That is why trips to the nursery to check out new plants can be dangerous, he said. “First of all, it’s adopting: When we go to the plant store for adoption day, it’s the kind of thing where it’s really hard to leave with just one.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In college, he said, he had a close friend who felt the same way about plants. “We both had plants in our dorm rooms. On a nice day, we would bring them out to the backyard, set them up on a picnic table while we read or studied.”
Advertisement
Now, in his career as a chef, he said, “it goes full circle, appreciating nature and appreciating the bounties of life.”
But how can he bear to cook plants, when he regards them as family?
“Some are planted and grown to be eaten, and some are planted and grown to be friends,” he said.
“That’s why it’s important even when it comes to cooking vegetables, you pay full respect to it,” he added. “You don’t want any of it to go to waste. It gave its life for you, just like a really expensive piece of meat.”
Follow Valencia Prashad on Twitter: @EditorValencia.
A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page RE14 of the New York edition with the headline: Don’t Cook Friends.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.