
Advertisement
Supported by
Noor Menai, president and C.E.O. of CTBC Bank U.S.A. in Los Angeles, finds life lessons in a movie, a song and a 300-year-old periodical.
As told to Patricia R. Olsen
Five years ago we moved from Torrance to two floors near the top of the 801 Tower in downtown Los Angeles.
Shortly after we moved here, the woman who at the time at the time was the C.E.O. of Greenland USA, the U.S. subsidiary of a Chinese construction firm, made a formal visit about a skyscraper they were building across the way.
She asked if we would mind if they built it a little higher, which could obstruct our view. We both knew it was just a courtesy, but I thought her old-world charm was very classy. We’re now one of their preferred mortgage lenders.
My office is just past the reception area as you exit the elevator. I chose that location by design, to be accessible. I also leave my door open since I believe closed doors can appear ominous and threatening.
Two of our female executives and I designed our entire space with an architect and a designer. We have both Asian and American customers, and I wanted the area to reflect the two cultures. Having lived on three continents, I had a feeling about what that might look like: bright colors to jolt people into happiness about when they arrive, and free-flowing space.
At my high school in Pakistan, as a mildly gifted cricket player who barely made the cut, I learned the value of being on a team without being the M.V.P. I use the cricket bats on the weekends with my sons, like an American family goes outside and throws the football around.
My father’s walking stick is in the corner. I was schooled in the British system of education, which has a formality that never leaves you. It means that sometimes you feel you’re a stranger in a strange land.
Sting moved to the U.S. like I did, and when he came out with “Englishman in New York,” it resonated with me, especially the lines “See me walking down Fifth Avenue, A walking cane here at my side.”
You occasionally see walking sticks in English movies, and my father and other Pakistani men used them to shoo away stray dogs on the road.
I hold meetings with my staff at the oval glass-topped table so that the distance between us is never more than a few feet.
I also use the table as a desk, but I spend much of my time at my standing desk. I switched to it about 10 years ago after a former Royal Navy officer impressed upon me that part of his training was learning to stand watch for 10 hours at a time. I was fascinated by the idea that building discipline into humdrum activities like responding to emails is a persistent way of remaining alert all day.
Earlier in my career I worked at Citibank. The blue clock, a memento, marks the tremendous success of its revolutionary digital services platform, myCiti, which launched in 2001. It helped to boost my career and survives to this day.
The books on the credenza are favorites I have enjoyed reading over and over. My most prized literary possession is a 300-year-old compilation of “The Spectator,” a periodical that described basic social obligations during that time.
When I was 18, I brought a mug from my college, Coe College in Iowa, to the woman in Pakistan who would become my wife. I keep it here now, along with my grandfather’s fountain pens. I also have the note my then 8-year-old son Nabi wrote with one when I showed him how to fill the bladder with ink. It was humorous and I was glad to see he could write well.
When I was overseeing Citibank marketing for Asia, a colleague gave me a framed replica of shoes worn by Chinese women who underwent foot-binding in the 10th century to keep their feet small as a symbol of social status. The shoes remind me of how certain ersatz practices can seem perfectly normal until the march of history exposes them as absurd.
It is our job to think critically and question whether certain current practices are the foot-binding of our age.
Advertisement