
By C. J. HUGHESMARCH 9, 2018

Climbing walls. Saltwater pools. Greenhouses.
And now, health care.
As apartment buildings across the city race to outdo one another with the extra-special perks known as amenities, the Hudson Yards mega-project on the Far West Side has come up with an unusual offering.
The mixed-used neighborhood-in-the-making, which is being developed by the Related Companies and Oxford Properties Group, is creating a medical clinic for the exclusive use of people who live or work in Related buildings.
To be run by the Mount Sinai Health System, the 18,000-square-foot facility will be at 55 Hudson Yards, a 51-story office tower under construction at 11th Avenue and West 34th Street. It will be open seven days a week, but not 24 hours a day; doctors will be available by phone after hours.
Proximity to medical care might be far down the list of what renters are seeking in a neighborhood, especially if they are young and healthy. But at Hudson Yards, a former industrial area where stethoscopes are scarce, the arrival of a clinic could have a major impact, real estate executives say.
Advertisement
“You might not have thought about it beforehand, in the same way you don’t ask where the nearest firehouse or police station is,” said Nancy Packes, a consultant to residential developers, including some who build in Hudson Yards, but who isn’t involved with any of the Related projects. Renters and buyers will likely “come to look at it as added benefit,” she said.
The Mount Sinai clinic, scheduled to open next winter, is not a full-fledged hospital: It will not have a traditional emergency room and will not have any beds for overnight stays.
Advertisement
But the light-filled space will have exam rooms and will offer consultation spaces. In that way, it will resemble small-scale facilities that Mount Sinai currently operates in neighborhoods throughout New York City.
Residents of buildings like 15 Hudson Yards, a Related condominium that has sold about 50 percent of its 285 market-rate units in 18 months, as well as tenants in office towers like 10 Hudson Yards, home to Coach and other companies, will be able to visit the clinic for checkups or emergencies that are not life-threatening. For those that are, patients would likely have to leave the neighborhood and head to Mount Sinai West, a full-service hospital with a proper emergency room, at Tenth Avenue and West 58th Street.
While reduced-service clinics might not be new, Mount Sinai does seem to be trying to create an unusual level of access to medical staff at the facility. Members will be able to call doctors on their cellphones at night and on weekends, said Dr. Evan Flatow, president of Mount Sinai West. And in an expansion of existing programs, Mount Sinai will offer house calls at Hudson Yards, dispatching doctors to offices and apartments as needs arise, Dr. Flatow said.
Health insurance will cover the cost of treatment, as it does at any hospital, though Mount Sinai’s clinic, which will employ about two dozen people, will also charge fees for the above-and-beyond services. Those fees, which haven’t been set yet, could be picked up by the corporations on behalf of their employees, Dr. Flatow suggested, or possibly wrapped into a larger amenities charge for residents.
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
“You can give people a health club and a garage,” he said, “but to give them better health care is really pioneering.”
Still, the idea wasn’t something that occurred to Related until the company began talking to buyers at 15 Hudson Yards about what made for an ideal place to live, said Jeff T. Blau, Related’s chief executive. “They were saying they like having their doctors around the corner, and when we thought about it we realized there were no doctors around the corner, because this neighborhood didn’t exist before,” said Mr. Blau, who also serves on Mount Sinai’s board of directors.
Advertisement
Related’s Hudson Yards project, a $25 billion undertaking that won’t be finished until 2025, includes offices, apartment buildings, stores and parks west of Tenth Avenue, mostly on platforms built on top of active railroad tracks. The focus to date has been on commercial developments, but in the coming years, a wave of new apartments is planned.
While that is in the works, Related, among the city’s most active and successful developers, has been busy with other projects just outside the official boundaries of Hudson Yards, whose residents would also be eligible to be patients of the new Mount Sinai outpost. Those projects include One Hudson Yards, a 178-unit rental building on West 30th Street, and Abington House, a connected 312-unit rental building. Owners at 520 West 28th Street, a 39-unit condo that Related developed a few blocks away, would also be invited to become members of the Mount Sinai clinic, Mr. Blau said.
The area is dotted with buildings from other developers, but their residents would be excluded from clinic. Examples include Eugene, an 844-unit rental on West 31st Street from Brookfield Property Partners, and Ohm, a 368-unit rental on 11th Avenue from Douglaston Development.
But don’t expect other developers to follow suit, Ms. Packes said. “You require a large complex to invoke exclusivity,” she said. “This is not something that many developers will be able to replicate.”
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2018, on Page RE12 of the New York edition with the headline: Hudson Yards Developer Tells Tenants to Say ‘Aah’.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.