
Advertisement
Supported by
By Linda Qiu and Kitty Bennett
President Trump said on Monday that his administration would leave it to states to set an age limit for buying assault rifles. It was a reversal of weeks of repeated promises to act, and the latest of years of conflicting positions he has taken on a range of gun issues, from background checks to arming teachers. 
Mr. Trump has said he supports requiring background checks for gun purchases, and at various times has even called for strengthening such measures. However, he has also questioned whether background checks work and opposed expanding the system. 
October 1999: 
“I favor you have to go through a process, but the fact is that the bad ones already have one, and they’re not going to go through a process either; they’re not going to go through any process.” — Interview on CNN.
2000:
“I also support a slightly longer waiting period to purchase a gun. With today’s Internet technology we should be able to tell within seventy-two hours if a potential gun owner has a record.” — “The America We Deserve.” 
May 16, 2013:
2015: 
“Unfortunately, as expected, bringing more government regulation into the situation has accomplished very little. The main ‘benefit’ has been to make it difficult for a law-abiding American to buy a gun. As study after study has proven, few criminals are stupid enough to try to pass a background check or have their names in any kind of system.” — “Great Again: How to Fix Our Crippled America.”
September 2015: 
“What we need to do is fix the system we have and make it work as intended. What we don’t need to do is expand a broken system.” — Campaign position paper.
Feb. 21, 2018: 
“We’re going to be very strong on background checks. We’re going to be doing very strong background checks.” — Listening session with teachers and students.
While the ban was in place, Mr. Trump voiced his support. Fifteen years later, he called it a “total failure.” He recently suggested that he was open to at least considering a new ban on assault weapons sales.
2000: 
“I generally oppose gun control, but I support the ban on assault weapons.” — “The America We Deserve.” 
2015: 
“Gun and magazine bans are a total failure. That’s been proven every time it’s been tried. ... The government has no business dictating what types of firearms good, honest people are allowed to own.” — Campaign position paper.
Feb. 28, 2018: 
Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California: “This is when the 10-year assault weapon ban was in — how incidents and deaths dropped. When it ended, you see it going up. So Senator Murphy —”
Mr. Trump: “So we’ll take a look at it.”
Ms. Feinstein: “— and 26 of us have co-sponsored a new bill. I would be most honored if you would take a look at it.”
Mr. Trump: “I will. I will.” — Meeting with lawmakers.
After repeatedly and vociferously recommending that the age restriction for buying rifles and shotguns be raised to 21 from 18, Mr. Trump walked back his promise and suggested it was up to states to decide. 
Feb. 22, 2018: 
“We’re going to work on getting the age up to 21 instead of 18. We’re getting rid of the bump stocks.” — Listening session with local and state officials on school safety. 
Feb. 28, 2018:
March 12, 2018:
In the wake of school shootings since at least 2015, Mr. Trump has proposed arming teachers  — only to deny that he ever took such a position days, or mere moments, later. 
Jan. 7, 2016: 
“I will get rid of gun-free zones on schools, and — you have to — and on military bases. My first day, it gets signed, O.K.?” — Rally in Burlington, Vt. 
May 21, 2016: 
May 22, 2016: 
“You look at some of our schools — unbelievable what’s going on. But I’m not advocating guns in classrooms. But remember, in some cases — and a lot of people have made this case — teachers should be able to have guns. Trained teachers should be able to have guns in classrooms.” — Interview on Fox News.
Feb. 21, 2018:
Feb. 22, 2018: 
Feb. 22, 2018: 
“I don’t want teachers to have guns. I want certain highly adept people, people that understand weaponry, guns — if they really have that aptitude. ... But you could have concealed on the teachers.” — Listening session with local and state officials on school safety. 
For decades, Mr. Trump consistently has said he supports the right to bear arms. But he has sometimes suggested confiscating the guns of certain segments of the population. 
October 1999: 
“If you could take the guns away from the bad guys, and there are plenty of them out there, I’m all for it, but you can’t. Now, if you had a law that says no guns, the people that are law abiding are going to go by that law, but the bad guys aren’t, so they’re going to have all the guns and the good guys aren’t.”
“Look, there’s nothing I like better than nobody has them, but that’s not going to happen, Larry. So, as long as that’s not going to happen, I say you have to be allowed to have a gun.” — Interview on CNN.
Nov. 18, 1999: 
“Well, I think you have to have the right to have a gun. Now, I hate the concept of guns. I’m not in favor of it, except for one thing: The bad guys are going to have them.” — Interview on MSNBC.
2015: 
“We have to keep guns out of the hands of people with mental health issues. The fact that people with mental health problems can obtain guns is not right.” — “Great Again: How to Fix Our Crippled America.” 
Aug. 4, 2015
“And you have some very sick people that shouldn’t have guns, and we’re all into that and everybody agrees with that.” — Interview on MSNBC.
September 2015:
“The Second Amendment to our Constitution is clear. The right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed upon. Period.” — Campaign position paper.
Feb. 4, 2016:
“I won’t let them take away our guns!!” — Facebook post.
Sept. 26, 2016: 
“You do stop and frisk, which worked very well, Mayor Giuliani is here, worked very well in New York. It brought the crime rate way down. But you take the gun away from criminals that shouldn’t be having it.”  — First presidential debate.
Feb. 28, 2018:
“I like taking the guns early, like in this crazy man’s case that just took place in Florida. He had a lot of firearms. They saw everything. To go to court would have taken a long time. So you could do exactly what you’re saying, but take the guns first, go through due process second.” — Meeting with lawmakers.
Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to the Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.@ylindaqiu
Advertisement