
By ELIZABETH WILLIAMSONMARCH 12, 2018

WASHINGTON — President Trump on Tuesday is to visit a barren stretch of scrubland in San Diego to view eight attempts at realizing his vision for a “big, beautiful wall.” All the prototypes are big. None are beautiful.
The eight stolid slabs awaiting Mr. Trump inside the razor wire in the border neighborhood of Otay Mesa were chosen from numerous proposals (the Department of Homeland Security refused to say how many) submitted to the agency last year. In soliciting ideas, the department said that each prototype would be judged, along with its impenetrability, on “aesthetics and innovative design.”
Innovation they got. Among the unsuccessful bidders was Clayton Industries, a Pittsburgh-based outfit that envisioned a 30-foot wall reinforced by sensors, an electrified chain-link fence and a railroad track dumping nuclear waste into a 100-foot deep moat. The waste is used as a power source.
“It wasn’t a booby trap,” said Chris Clayton, the company’s president. “What I was trying to do was to consolidate all the nuclear waste dumps and cesspools that are littered throughout the U.S. Why put up a simple concrete wall across the border when you can serve a couple of other functions? To the general public it might seem a little wild, but I made it to the second round.”
Advertisement
Other firms submitted concepts for walls topped by solar panels that would generate power, maybe even to sell, as a tricky way to get Mexico to pay for the wall. One company, National Consulting Service of National City, Calif., envisioned a wall topped by a monorail serving both nations, according to proposal information leaked to the San Diego Union-Tribune. The kicker: The train would feature “voice analysis technology to detect different emotional states of riders to possibly assist law enforcement.”
Advertisement
Even further afield were ideas from architects, designers and artists. The idea of a government soliciting bids to build a physical barrier dividing nations ignited fraught conversations among many of them and led to some offbeat ideas. Not your typical government contractors, many did not bother to submit their proposals to Homeland Security but offered them up to the public as statements on the controversial structure. Some saw potential for creating a stirring monument. Others saw a chance to express their revulsion at the entire endeavor.
In the latter category is the “Prison Wall,” a proposal for a 2,000-mile, vivid pink wall complex envisioned by Estudio 3.14, a design firm in Guadalajara, Mexico, and the Mamertine Group, a design lab at the University of Connecticut directed by Hassanaly Ladha. Leonardo Díaz Borioli, Estudio 3.14’s creative director, rallied students from three Guadalajara architecture schools to come up with a design “inspired by Luis Barragán’s pink walls that are emblematic of Mexico.” (Mr. Barragán was a renowned 20th-century Mexican architect.)
“It also takes advantage of the tradition in architecture of megalomaniac wall building. Moreover, the wall is not only a wall,” said Norberto Miranda, the firm’s spokesman. “It is a prison where 11 million undocumented people will be processed, classified, indoctrinated and/or deported.” There’s also a shopping mall, “with a Macy’s, in the Tijuana section,” he added.
The project includes mock-ups of an advertising campaign for cheap Mexican labor to build the project, with the headline “You are wanted too!”
Since the pyramids, “architects have always designed for power, and architecture has the capacity to make visual any atrocity,” Mr. Diaz Borioli said. “The moment we started to render it, we realized how absurd the whole idea is.” After the firm placed its satirical proposal in a couple of design magazines, it circled the world. Videos juxtaposing the rose-colored renderings with Mr. Trump’s pro-wall speeches have garnered hundreds of thousands of views. In Mexico, the reception was more muted, Mr. Diaz Borioli said: “It was a little bit too provocative.”
The proposal was never a serious one. It’s not possible to meet the Department of Homeland Security’s “aesthetics” requirement anyway, Mr. Diaz Borioli said. “Infrastructure that has such a perverse objective is difficult to think of as aesthetic,” he said. “I’m happy our proposal makes people laugh, because that is what we are left with now.”
John Beckmann of the New York architecture and interior design studio Axis Mundi and an anonymous collective, Third Mind Foundation, sponsored an international competition to bring what they called “bold humanitarian solutions, creativity and innovation” to bear on border wall designs.

                The government could choose a design soon, but experts say picking one that works for the entire southern border would be extremely hard.            
“I thought, ‘If this thing is going to happen, why not try to seek visionary solutions for it?’” Mr. Beckmann said. “In my mind it was an opportunity to do a kind of monumental conceptual sculpture.”
Advertisement
Two multiethnic teams tied for the $5,000 first-place prize. The “Irrigation Wall” is the brainchild of Gautier Piechotta and Wu Di from Paris’s École Spéciale d’Architecture. The structure incorporates an elaborate mechanism that draws water from the Gulf of Mexico, the Sea of Cortez and the Pacific Ocean, desalinates it and distributes it along the length of the border. It ignores  Mr. Trump’s goal of “ending the illegal flow of drugs, cash, guns and people across our border.”
Instead, the designers said, “possible benefits could include revegetation of the desert, creation of agricultural operations on either side of the channel and new bilateral treaty governing the distribution and use of the water between the two countries.”
Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The second winner, “Inflatoborder,” does away with the wall entirely as a “fetishized object,” according to a proposal submitted by Michelle Stein, a designer based in Charlottesville, Va.; Shannon Ruhl and Donna Ryu, graduate students from the University of Virginia; and a Honduran architectural designer, Rosa Cristina Corrales Rodriguez.
The concept is for “a system of flexible bubbles that perform a variety of functions meant to bring communities on either side of the existing wall together,” the proposal said. “Air pressure is adjusted according to need — creating a canopy, for instance, that shelters roadside markets where it runs through agricultural lands, or creating ‘play area’ enclosures for families and children in densely populated urban centers straddling the border.” Try making that out of precast concrete.
Mr. Trump worked with the Department of Homeland Security from the beginning, and “provided D.H.S. explicit guidance on what type of wall that he wants,” said Katie Waldman, a department spokeswoman.
During the campaign, Mr. Trump summed up his requirements: “It’s going to be a real wall, it’s going to be a high wall, it’s going to be a beautiful wall, it’s going to be a wall that works.” But the wall won’t be a “real wall” as much as a “border system” — part increased patrols, part monitoring devices, part lighting and part wall. The barriers Mr. Trump will visit on Tuesday would be built only in what are considered suitable areas, not along the entire 2,000-mile border.
Whether Congress will free up the more than $20 billion that the department estimates the project will cost remains an open question.
Looking at photos of the eight prototypes, Mr. Beckmann said he couldn’t imagine how Mr. Trump would choose. “We’ve reached new heights of absurdity,” he said. “Pun intended.”
A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2018, on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Choices on the Border: Want Solar Power With That ‘Big, Beautiful Wall’?.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »