
Advertisement
Supported by
Travel Tips
By Shivani Vora
The service at that hotel you just stayed at was so-so. Your friend’s experience at the same property, on the other hand, was spot on. Why the disparity? It may be more than chance.
According to Joshua Bush, a hotel industry expert and the chief executive officer of Avenue Two Travel, while good service at a hotel, even a pricey one, isn’t a guarantee, there are a few ways to increase your odds of getting treated well. 
Keep in mind that most luxury hotels have an ingrained service culture, while budget and mid-tier properties often don’t. “It’s unreasonable to stay at a three-star property and expect the staff to run around for you because they’re not necessarily trained in providing individualized service,” Mr. Bush said. That doesn’t mean you can’t have a stellar experience at a budget hotel — you should just be reasonable with your desires and demands before you book.
The staff at luxury hotels, however, are usually trained in anticipatory service, and the need to please their guests. They may even have a budget to “wow” guests with surprise gifts such as a bottle of their favorite Champagne, complimentary meals or included activities, or other amenities designed to make a stay at a luxury hotel live up to the luxury price tag.  
Good service is in the eye of the beholder and, as a result, choosing the right  hotel goes a long way in your interpretation of service. “It’s possible to spend $1,000 a night in two different renowned hotels and have completely dissimilar service experiences because properties have different service philosophies,” Mr. Bush said. 
Some high-end hotels, for example, take pride in offering formal and traditional white glove service. Others have a more colloquial approach where the staff greet guests by their first names. Also, some hotels train their staff to constantly check in on guests while others do so with less frequency. Some travelers find the first approach too overbearing while others may perceive the latter as bad service. Consider what you personally prefer, and read up on what type of service the hotel provides before you decide where to stay. 
Getting in touch with your hotel’s concierge in advance of your stay can go a long way  toward a stellar service experience. Let them know why you’re coming, and what you’re looking for from your experience. 
“Hotels love making your stay above and beyond so if you’re celebrating a birthday or other occasion, make sure to tell the property,” Mr. Bush said. “The more you communicate to the hotel about why you’re there, the better the stay can be.”
Say your room service order took over an hour to arrive, or housekeeping missed cleaning your room. Mishaps happen, even at the best properties, and Mr. Bush advised informing the hotel’s duty manager right away when something goes wrong. 
“A hotel can try to fix the issue or at least make it up to you,” he said. “Too often, guests don’t bother to complain and end up feeling like they had bad service.” But be respectful and calm when you’re explaining the situation. The nicer you are to staff, the nicer they will be to you.
Travel agents, especially those part of large networks such as Virtuoso or Signature Travel Network, can often get their clients free amenities, such as property credit or free breakfasts.  You pay a premium to use a travel agent, but in addition to the other services they provide, the added perks can be worthwhile.
Also, when a booking comes in through a travel agent, hotels flag those guests as V.I.P.s, according to Mr. Bush, and they typically enjoy better service during their stays. “You can’t V.I.P. yourself, but an agent has the ability to do that for you,” Mr. Bush said.
Advertisement