

                Mini-Vows            
By                     
                                    VINCENT M. MALLOZZI
                            
                MARCH 17, 2018
    
Ashley Denise Hamilton and Jordan Douglas Chisolm were married March 17 at the Biltmore Hotel in Coral Gables, Fla. Pastor Diego Calderón, who was ordained by the Southwinds Christian Church of Miami, officiated.
The bride, 31, is an associate specializing in corporate law in the Miami office of Holland & Knight, a law firm headquartered in Tampa, Fla. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, from which she also received a law degree.
She is a daughter of Marcia E. Hamilton and Leopold W. Hamilton, both of Miami. The bride’s mother is a client relationship manager at Wells Fargo in Miami. Her father is retired as a fire inspector from the Miami-Dade County public school system.
The groom, 29, is a lawyer and fellow at Legal Services of Greater Miami. He graduated from George Washington University and received a law degree from N.Y.U.
Advertisement
He is a son of Saundra Chisolm and Douglas Chisolm of Freeport, N.Y. The groom’s mother is a nurse practitioner and employee health supervisor at St. John’s Episcopal Hospital in Far Rockaway, Queens. His father is a certified registered nurse anesthetist at NewYork-Presbyterian/Lower Manhattan Hospital.
Advertisement
Ms. Hamilton and Mr. Chisolm met in March 2012 at an N.Y.U. School of Law dinner for admitted students. “I sat in the back next to a guy in a chocolate brown suit who turned out to be Jordan,” Ms. Hamilton said, laughing. “He looked like the C.E.O. of UPS, but he was cute.”
They chatted briefly over wine, and Mr. Chisolm began amusing Ms. Hamilton, who is of Jamaican descent, by speaking in his best Patois accent.
“She seemed entertained by my corny humor,” he said. “And I deployed the best of my nerdy charm.”
As they teased each other and discussed some short-term plans (she was heading to a birthday party immediately after the dinner and he had to get up early for an interview), Mr. Chisolm caught a glimpse of Ms. Hamilton’s thoughtful and caring personality.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
“I was intrigued by her insistence that I leave to prepare for my interview,” he said. “Though I was surprised she favored ending the night, her concern for my preparation was heartfelt.”
At that point, their story gets a bit blurry, as Ms. Hamilton and Mr. Chisolm each have their own version of how they received the other’s contact information.
“Jordan said we should keep in touch, and I asked him how he would do that without my number,” Ms. Hamilton said. “So he asked for it, and he hasn’t left me alone not one day ever since. First and last time I gave my number to a stranger.”
But according to Mr. Chisolm, he “made a crucial, strategic decision not to ask for her number.”
“Rather than appear overeager,” he said, “I wagered that she would be even more intrigued that I did not ask.”
Advertisement
After a moment of awkward silence, he said, she did ask. He recalled her saying, “I think it’s important that young black professionals like us keep in touch for networking, why don’t you give me your number?”
From there, their story becomes crystal clear.
“I spent a romantic summer with Ashley learning about this compelling woman,” Mr. Chisolm said. “She electrified me. She made me look good, and feel even better. I quickly abandoned my plan to eschew any relationships in law school and made it official barely two months later.”
“I didn’t know it then,” Mr. Chisolm added, “but I hit the jackpot.”
When told that line, Ms. Hamilton laughed a little louder and said, “Well, there’s no disputing that.”
A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 2018, on Page ST14 of the New York edition with the headline: How Did They Meet? It’s Debatable.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »