
Advertisement
Supported by
Browsing
By Hayley Phelan
If the fall 2018 runway shows, which just wrapped, are any indication, the end is nigh — at least when it comes to sartorial inspiration. Some of the biggest labels, including Calvin Klein, Gucci and Prada, sent out looks tailor-made for a dystopian world. Not everyone pictures the same postapocalyptic landscape, of course. So here, competing visions for a brave new world, and how to wear them now (when we’ve still got time!).
For Raf Simons at Calvin Klein, the future looks a lot like the past, but with a few ominous twists. At his latest outing, models strode the runway in filmy dresses seemingly lifted from “Little House on the Prairie,” but styled with balaclavas and chunky white patent leather or silver boots. It makes sense: Once we’ve settled into our underground shelters, we’ll likely dream of simpler times. Work a similar juxtaposition by pairing a Victorian lace frock with slick accessories and a protective underlayer.
Madewell cotton kerchief, $12.50 at Madewell, madewell.com; Kendall & Kylie mesh catsuit, $160 at Topshop, topshop.com; Monki patent leather over-the-knee boots, $95 at us.asos.com; Cecilie Bahnsen tiered silk-blend dress, $1,209 at matchesfashion.com.  
Just because the world is ending doesn’t mean we have to give up on our ideals. Some labels, including Gypsy Sport, worked in the tradition of contemporary punks, street wear fanatics and activists. In this school of thinking, the future isn’t different so much as it is a more woke (and tattered) version of today, with the kind of ensembles one might imagine at a dystopian protest. Get your own march on in sturdy boots, utilitarian pants and a graphic T-shirt that projects your beliefs.
Off-White distressed cotton denim jacket with organza insets, $1,370 at Barneys New York, barneys.com. Katherine Hamnett silk T-shirt, $315 at matchesfashion.com; Justine Clenquet brass and gold-plated single earring, $75 at Opening Ceremony, openingceremony.com; Carhartt WIP cotton pants, $118 at Carhartt, carhartt-wip.com; Alyx washed leather hiking boots, $664 at shopalyxstudio.com.
Start doing lunges now. To make it through the apocalypse, you’ll have to be physically fit — and possibly part cyborg. In other words, the perfect candidate to pull off the futuristic, protective gear on the runways at Off-White, Maison Margiela and Prada. To try out the look this spring, choose athletic-inspired outerwear in shiny metallics, thick leather pants, hands-free accessories and sneakers to give you an edge in outrunning the debris of meteor showers.
The North Face anorak with metallic finish, $90 at Bloomingdale’s, bloomingdales.com; Opening Ceremony mesh moto top, $175 at Opening Ceremony, openingceremony.com; Facetasm oversize vinyl pants, $445 at net-a-porter.com; Alexander Wang leather belt bag, $550 at Alexander Wang, alexanderwang.com; Nike high-top sneakers with metal detail, $240 at ssense.com.  
Advertisement