
By MIKAYLA BOUCHARD and EMILY COCHRANEMARCH 22, 2018

WASHINGTON — President Trump announced on Thursday the swift substitution of his national security adviser: Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the battle-tested, three-star Army general, is resigning and will be replaced by John R. Bolton, the former American ambassador to the United Nations.

            I am pleased to announce that, effective 4/9/18, @AmbJohnBolton will be my new National Security Advisor. I am very thankful for the service of General H.R. McMaster who has done an outstanding job & will always remain my friend. There will be an official contact handover on 4/9.        
Mr. Bolton, who was considered a hawk among hawks in President George W. Bush’s administration, had a history of incendiary comments that primed him to be a commentator on Fox News. There, he impressed Mr. Trump with his muscular version of American power.
News that Mr. Bolton would become Mr. Trump’s third national security adviser — after General McMaster and Michael T. Flynn — was met with immediate acclaim and criticism.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Here’s a look at how political figures and lawmakers on the right and the left reacted.
Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina
“Selecting John Bolton as national security adviser is good news for America’s allies and bad news for America’s enemies. I have known John Bolton for well over a decade and believe he will do an outstanding job as President Trump’s new national security adviser. He has a firm understanding of the threats we face from North Korea, Iran and radical Islam.”
Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah

            Hatch statement on appointment of Ambassador John Bolton to be National Security Advisor: pic.twitter.com/capxnViyYW        
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida

            I know John Bolton well, he is an excellent choice who will do an great job as National Security Advisor. General McMaster has served and will continue to serve our nation well. We should all be grateful to him for his service.        
Representative Lee Zeldin of New York
“Ambassador John Bolton is ridiculously knowledgeable and will be a great national security adviser. The leaks coming out of the National Security Council will end, Obama administration holdovers will be gone, and the team, chemistry and work product will all be improved. Ambassador Bolton is a very underrated, amazing American, and I applaud this extraordinarily talented pick. I look forward to working closely with Ambassador Bolton on the many national security concerns facing our exceptional country.”
Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas

            I also congratulate Ambassador John Bolton for his appointment as the next National Security Advisor. He's an excellent choice to take the baton from General McMaster.        
Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader
“Mr. Bolton’s tendency to try to solve every geopolitical problem with the American military first is a troubling one. I hope he will temper his instinct to commit the men and women of our armed forces to conflicts around the globe, when we need to be focused on building the middle class here at home.”
Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the ranking member on House Intelligence Committee 

            It’s hard to escape the disquieting conclusion that the mass exodus of the “adults” from this Administration is putting our nation’s security at risk. Ambassador Bolton’s hawkish and conspiratorial thinking will only make matters dangerously worse.        
Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii

            I can’t think of anyone more dangerous than John Bolton to be the National Security Adviser. Pompeo and Bolton are standard bearers for the interventionist neocon foreign policy establishment, addicted to regime change wars, without any thought of the deathly cost or consequence        
Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts 

            With the appointments of Mike Pompeo and John Bolton, @realDonaldTrump is successfully lining up his war cabinet. Bolton played a key role in politicizing the intel that misled us into the Iraq War. We cannot let this extreme war hawk blunder us into another terrible conflict.        

            John Bolton supports proactively bombing Iran and conducting a first strike on North Korea without provocation. Appointing him to be Nat Sec Advisor is a grave danger to the American people and a clear message from @realDonaldTrump that he is gearing up for military conflict.        
Senator Christopher S. Murphy of Connecticut

            The person who will be first in/first out of the Oval Office on national security matters passionately believes the U.S. should launch preemptive war against both Iran and North Korea w no authorization from Congress. My god.        
Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »