
Advertisement
Supported by
Right at Home
By Ronda Kaysen
Buying a home is not entirely unlike childbirth. While you’re in the throes of it, you are frantic that everything will go wrong; convinced it will never end; and curse yourself for thinking it was ever a good idea.
But then, in a flash, it’s over, you’re handed your beautiful baby — or, in this case, your shiny new keys — and with a giddy euphoria, you promptly forget all the pain you just endured. A few years later, you may even start thinking about going through this all over again.
The experience can be particularly jarring for first-time buyers who tend to be especially anxious about blowing through a nest egg and may be oblivious to the potential stumbling blocks ahead. Shop for your first home and there’s a good chance you’re heavily leveraged, leaving little financial cushion should you unexpectedly need to come up with more cash to, say, give the co-op board advanced maintenance payments.
Plus, all this stress goes on for a ridiculously long time. Last year, it took New Yorkers an average of 68 days to close on a purchase, according to StreetEasy. That’s more than two months of sweaty palms and panicked phone calls to brokers, lawyers and lenders.
“I always tell my first-time buyers, ‘You’re going into labor, and I’m going to be your doula,’” said Danielle Lurie, a saleswoman with Compass.
Here are just a few things that could give you stomach cramps: The seller could ask to stay in the apartment after it’s sold, throwing a monkey wrench into your moving plans. You could learn, during the final walk-through after a blizzard in March, that the Brooklyn townhouse you’re about to buy has no heat. Or maybe you discover the IRS has a lien on the Chelsea condo you’re about to buy, as happened to one buyer last year.
“If somebody has a misstep, everything goes kablooey,” said Richard Pisnoy, a principal of Silver Fin Capital, a mortgage brokerage in Great Neck, Long Island.
You would think someone like Christopher Kromer, who is an associate broker with Halstead and presumably knows how the process works, would have sailed through his first buying experience like a champ. But no.
“It was gut wrenching, I was anxious every day,” said Mr. Kromer who, with his wife, Stephanie Vo, a lawyer, bought a three-bedroom co-op in Park Slope in 2015, winning a 12-person bidding war by offering 10 percent over list price with no contingencies. No contingencies meant they couldn’t get out of the contract even if any surprises arose. And surprise! “We didn’t think through scenario one, two or three,” Mr. Kromer, 44, said.
Scenario one turned out to be the appraisal. The appraiser valued the apartment, with treetop views in a doorman building, for $75,000 less than the contract price, which meant the bank wouldn’t give them as much money for the mortgage, so Mr. Kromer and Ms. Vo had to come up with roughly $35,000 to make up the difference. (If they’d had a mortgage contingency, they might have been able to renegotiate the price, or even back out of the deal.) They closed for $1.552 million.
And then the sellers asked to stay in the apartment after the closing, meaning Mr. Kromer and Ms. Vo, 42, had to find temporary housing because they needed to vacate their Prospect Heights loft. They ended up staying in a friend’s vacation house in Garrison, N.Y., saddling Mr. Kromer with a two-hour commute.
This all would have been tolerable, except for a few more wrinkles. First, Ms. Vo gave birth to their second child, Connor, three weeks before the closing. They also decided to renovate their kitchen before moving in, and then Mr. Kromer decided to strip the doors and remove some ceilings too. Oh, and Ms. Vo’s mother was visiting to help with the new baby, staying with them first in Garrison and later in an Airbnb in Brooklyn. “It was decision overload,” Mr. Kromer said. “It was overwhelming.”
Looking back on it, Mr. Kromer blames a lack of perspective for his late-night anxiety attacks. “I needed someone who was objective, who I could trust. I did not have that,” he said. “And that was very, very humbling.”
While some issues are avoidable — not everyone takes a sledgehammer to a kitchen with a newborn — others are not. When you decide to buy a home, even the best-laid plans may need some tinkering.
“The majority of transactions have some level of drama,” said Pierre E. Debbas, a real estate lawyer in Manhattan whose firm handles hundreds of closings a year, including the one last year with an IRS lien on the property — it eventually got sorted out, and the one earlier this month where the Brooklyn townhouse buyers discovered that the heating system was not working the day after a snowstorm.
“How do you let a client close on a townhouse that doesn’t have heat?” Mr. Debbas said. This is how: You get the sellers to put money in an escrow account to cover the cost of repairs and everyone signs the paperwork and that’s that.
It also helps to choose a seasoned team, or at the very least, people who actually work in the real estate business. Note to self: “Don’t have your cousin who’s a divorce attorney represent you in the purchase,” Mr. Pisnoy said, a scenario that apparently happens more often than you might think.
You can’t blame buyers for their innocence. Who ever talks about the headaches of a closing at the housewarming party? Instead, all your friends who are still renting show up with a bottle of champagne and eagerly follow you around as you reveal your enviable eat-in kitchen.
“There’s a level of pride that goes into overcoming the process of being a first-time buyer,” Ms. Lurie said. “It was gnarly at times, but man it was awesome.”
And so, when your friends leave that party, odds are they’re thinking about buying a cute little apartment too, and not the sweat and heartache it might take to get one.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.




Advertisement