

                Ask Real Estate            
By                     
                                    RONDA KAYSEN
                            
                MARCH 24, 2018
    
Q. I live in a rent-stabilized apartment in the West Village. Every morning, the superintendent, or another worker, mops the entryway with powerful cleaning products. Once a week, workers sprinkle a potent powder on the hallway rugs to vacuum. Since I work from home, I am constantly exposed to these toxic products. I have complained to the super and building management, to no avail. (The super even told me the owner hopes that I will move out because my lease is rent-stabilized.) I have read about the health hazards of cleaning products. Imagine what it’s like being forced to inhale these fumes daily! What can be done to protect my health?
A. Many household cleaning products (even some that are marketed as environmentally friendly) contain ingredients that can harm your health. Such products can irritate your eyes or throat and cause headaches or other health problems.
Some people are more sensitive to chemicals than others, particularly those with conditions like asthma. “These things are irritants, but everybody’s threshold is a little different,” said Dr. Louis DePalo, a pulmonology professor at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.

            Submit your questions, share your stories and tell us what topics interest you most. Post a comment or email us at realestateqa@nytimes.com.        
Is the building using these products to harass you, as your question suggested? Possibly. But management might also just be trying to keep the area clean. (Dust can also be an irritant.)
Advertisement
Since these products are legal, you cannot force the building to change its purchasing habits. however, you could try the art of persuasion — with your neighbors, building staff and management.
Advertisement
Start by talking to your neighbors. Another tenant who is home during the day may share your frustration. Perhaps some of them might be willing to join you in an effort to use greener products. Talk to the workers, too, asking them if the chemicals irritate their eyes or airways, as their exposure is greater than yours. Explain the health risks they face by inhaling these fumes. Suggest some safer alternatives, such as ones recommended by the E.P.A.
Next, write a letter, sent by certified mail, to your management company explaining your concerns and requesting that the building switch products. Ask other tenants to sign the letter with you. If your request goes ignored, you could file an air quality complaint with 311.
You could also file a harassment complaint with the Bureau of Consumer Frauds and Protection in the state Attorney General’s office, said David Hershey-Webb, a tenant lawyer and a partner at the Manhattan firm Himmelstein, McConnell, Gribben, Donoghue and Joseph. However, your claim that management is cleaning the building to harass you may be hard to prove.
To submit your question or comments, email realestateqa@nytimes.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 2018, on Page RE2 of the New York edition with the headline: What Can I Do to Keep My Super From Using Nasty Cleaning Products?.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »