
Advertisement
Supported by
State of the Unions
By Amy Sohn
There was nothing traditional about the union of Michelle Mead-Armor and John Armor. She was 57 and he 65, they had a total of six ex-spouses between them, and had dated each other, and broken up, three and a half decades before. They first met in 1972, when she was a 21-year-old student at Goucher College and Mr. Armor, a lawyer, was representing her husband in a case in Baltimore. She had accused her husband of assault and battery. Mr. Armor, though, won the case. Her husband then left the country.
Ms. Mead-Armor, who was living temporarily in a dorm at her college, then asked Mr. Armor to help get her belongings from the house she and her husband had shared. An unlikely romance blossomed. They were engaged in 1973 before she ended it, she said, feeling anxious about becoming a stepmother of three, and feeling tension with his family and friends.
They got in touch again by email in 2004, and met in New York for drinks in 2005. They married in June 2008. Two years and two months later, Ms. Mead-Armor would become a widow.
“Romeo and Juliet never had to grow older together or put their kids through college,” said Ms. Mead-Armor, now 67, in a phone interview from her home in Waynesboro, Va., on the southern fork of the Shenandoah River. “Juliet never went through menopause. You don’t live happily ever after.”
When they became reacquainted, Mr. Armor, an author and senior legal adviser for the American Civil Rights Union, was living in his childhood summer home in Highlands, N.C., in the Blue Ridge Mountains. At the time, she was living in Manhattan, working as a researcher of corporate loans for a German bank. With no driver’s license, she left her banking job in 2006 and relocated to be with him.
The 1918 house had no central heating, no air-conditioning, and spring water. When she moved down he had fallen behind on his utility bills, she said, and she paid them with the severance from her job.
“John was a trustafarian from a wealthy family,” she said. “My father was from a modest family in upstate New York and my mother was a G.I. war bride. I had a different work ethic than John did.”
Even after the bills were paid, the house caused problems. In the winter, she slept in a woolen hat, gloves, pajamas, and a nightgown. During one particularly frisky cold spell the windows became so loose that there was snow in the bedroom.
One summer there was no water for two weeks; the couple fetched water from their friends and ate off paper plates. She told him she was tired of it.
But there was a positive side to her new living situation. “I had a contact with nature that I had never had before,” she said. “I saw 14 turkeys walk across the lawn. I had a pet groundhog I called Mr. Bumbles.”
Mr. Armor could be whimsical. A fan of Benjamin Franklin, he often impersonated him at public events, complete with a serpent’s-head cane. At night, in bed, Ms. Mead-Armor read cookbooks, which Mr. Armor called “food porn.” In the car, when the couple came to a road they had never been down, they would take it, to see what they could find.
She helped pull him out of his shell, getting him to travel to Scotland, Ireland, Greece, Croatia and Italy. Despite his well-heeled background (he had attended a boarding school and Yale), Mr. Armor had never been to Europe. Ms. Mead-Armor, a published poet, had lived in Sydney for five years and Paris for 14 and has a master’s degree in translation from N.Y.U.
He ran unsuccessfully for a congressional seat in North Carolina, in the 2006 Republican primary, before they married. She said sometimes he could be insensitive and he began spending an increasing amount of time sitting in his bathrobe watching Fox News and expected her to tend to him.
When he had proposed, she had told him, “Every man I’ve ever met has treated me like the furniture,” and he promised to be different. But in Highlands, she said, “He assumed I was the chief cook and bottle washer.”
Still, he respected her intelligence and never underestimated her. Both appreciated The Highlands Newspaper, and after a columnist died, Ms. Mead-Armor suggested that she and Mr. Armor write a column, a combination of personal and political. He was so inspired that he drove her to the editor’s office so they could pitch themselves. The editor bit. The column was named “His & Hers,”  and they alternated from week to week. It featured a photo of her in a French beret and him a felt, wide-brimmed hat.
In April 2010, a colonoscopy revealed that he had rectal cancer. He breezed through chemotherapy and radiation, never losing his hair or weight. He and Ms. Mead-Armor were optimistic; his cancer had an 85 percent survival rate. After his surgery that August, he wrote a column called “The End of My Cancer,” urging readers to get colonoscopies.
But his own recovery was not simple. Mr. Armor, who previously had suffered two heart attacks and was a pack-and-a-half-a-day smoker for 30 years, didn’t bounce back. “The days we had in the hospital were some of the most special moments of our marriage,” Ms. Mead-Armor said. One day he looked down at her and said, “‘You’re the strongest person I know. I could never do this without you.’”
After she noticed that he was being rude to the hospital workers, beeping the call button constantly, she told him he had to stop. The next morning when she returned he had a complete change of attitude, saying “please” and “thank you” to his nurses.
On Aug. 20, 2010, nine days after his surgery, Ms. Mead-Armor received a call from the hospital at her motel. He died of acute aspiration before she arrived. “He looked good,” she said. “His hair had been washed the day before, and he didn’t have that pain in his face.’”
The column was retitled “Just Hers.” The first one she wrote after his death was called “Widowhood 101.” She closed with the line, “In the fine tradition of Scarlett O’Hara and Joan of Arc, I am maintaining.”
Once Ms. Mead-Armor returned home from Asheville, she had to figure out how to transport Mr. Armor’s ashes to Highlands, a two-hour drive. She still did not have a license. She called a friend, Betty Chesna, who drove a red Corvette that Mr. Armor had nicknamed “the sex wagon.” Ms. Mead-Armor put the urn box in the back seat and he was returned to Highlands in the sex wagon. “John would have loved it,” she said. “Men were winking and us and blowing kisses the whole way home.”
Even after death, life was complicated. It took three years to probate his estate. Because of legal issues surrounding the estate, the home was eventually auctioned off, as were his possessions. Ms. Mead-Armor, after having the highest bid, retained some personal items, like his Benjamin Franklin cane.
A few weeks before Mr. Armor died, his eighth book, “These Are the Times That Try Men’s Souls,” a collection of Thomas Paine’s writings that he had edited for 10 years, was published by the American Civil Rights Union. At the launch in the Highlands public library, he announced to the crowd, “There are three women without whom this book could not have seen the day,” and named his boss at the ACRU, his editor and his illustrator.
Mouths fell open. A man in the back of the room with a thick Carolina accent called out, “Boy, if you ever intend to have sex again in your natural lifetime you’d better be thanking your lady wife.”
Mr. Armor added, “And oh yes, of course, my wife Michelle.”
“John could be extremely insensitive,” Ms. Mead-Armor said as she recalled that evening, “but he was not a bad person. He could have taken better care of me, but he didn’t always take care of himself.”
The autumn after he died, she moved to an apartment above a bookstore in town. But it was difficult to be in Highlands without him. “I had to go past the place I didn’t live, the restaurants we had eaten in, and the church I used to go to,” she said.
She also found less sympathy as a widow than she had expected. When Mr. Armor was alive, they would invite widowed and single friends to accompany them to dinner and the theater, rather than couples. But after his death, few extended that courtesy to her.
By 2013, she was reminiscing about her hometown, Waynesboro, Va., in the Blue Ridge Mountains. She found a townhouse on the banks of the South River, with Canada geese on the lawn, and fell in love with it on the spot.
She has found her home in Waynesboro, singing in a choir, serving on the board of the local concert association, and attending the Unitarian Universalist fellowship. She has developed an interest in genealogy, discovering an ancestor who fought in the Civil War — “for the right side.” Mr. Armor had always been proud of his lineage, but it turned out her ancestors arrived in America 200 years before his. In 2014, at the age of 63, she finally got her driver’s license.
As far as romance goes, she has not remarried. “People value what is rare,” she said, “and widows are not in short supply. I’m a tall, fat, plain-spoken woman and men my age are dating women in their 30s and 40s.”
“John always said, ‘You honor a man by the way you treat his widow,’” Ms. Mead-Armor said. “And, ‘a widow honors her husband by the way she lives her life after he dies.’”
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows) and Instagram.


Advertisement