
Advertisement
Supported by
Big Ticket
By Vivian Marino
Manhattan’s luxury market ended the first quarter with a surge of high-priced closings.
Three properties sold for more than $30 million during the month of March (and several more were at or near $20 million), according to New York City property records. But not all these transactions yielded big profits, and some were years in the making.
The most expensive sales for the month were on the Upper East Side. The former Vanderbilt mansion, which was owned by Elizabeth Ross Johnson, an heiress to the Johnson & Johnson fortune who died last June, sold for $39 million. A full-floor apartment was sold for $35 million by Joseph J. Plumeri, the vice chairman of First Data, a payments-processing company, and an owner of a New York Yankees Class AA affiliate.
And on Midtown’s Billionaires’ Row, a 94th-floor penthouse near the pinnacle of super-tall 432 Park Avenue went for $32.4 million.
In other noteworthy March closings, the disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein sold his West Village townhouse.
Jeffrey Immelt, the former chief executive of General Electric, sold his Upper East Side apartment, while Brigitte Kleine, the former president of the fashion label Tory Burch, sold her Greenwich Village townhouse. The actress Jessica Hecht and her husband, Adam Bernstein, a TV director, sold their Midtown co-op; and the estate of the British playwright Peter Shaffer sold his Upper West Side penthouse.
Also, the singer Zayn Malik, a former member of the band One Direction, bought a SoHo penthouse.
THE BIGGEST SALE, the mansion at 16 East 69th Street, between Fifth and Madison Avenues, was handled through the limited liability company Falconer, the same entity that Ms. Johnson had used to buy the home in 2011.
Ms. Johnson, who was known as Libet, bought the house in a private sale from Sloan Lindemann Barnett, the author and socialite, and her husband, Roger Barnett, the chief executive of the Shaklee Corporation, a purveyor of nutrition and cleaning products. She paid $48 million, which was $9 million more than what it just sold for. The home was put back on the market for $55 million in 2016.
The buyer was identified as Chen Tianqiao, a Chinese billionaire and a founder of the Shanda Investment Group, whose interests include online game development.
The 1881 neo-Georgian house of red brick and limestone was once owned by Alice Gwynne Vanderbilt, the wife of Cornelius Vanderbilt II and the family matriarch. The 33-foot-wide, five-story structure has around 12,000 square feet of space that features seven bedrooms, including an enormous master suite on the third floor. There’s a large gym on the fifth floor and an entertainment room and lounge in the basement. The home also has five wood-burning fireplaces, a landscaped rear garden and two terraces, including one off the formal dining room on the second level.
Serena Boardman of Sotheby’s International Realty and John Burger of Brown Harris Stevens were the listing brokers.
THE APARTMENT SOLD by Mr. Plumeri is on the 15th floor of 995 Fifth Avenue, at 81st Street, across from the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The limestone and brick co-op building, the former Stanhope Hotel, was designed by Rosario Candela in the mid-1920s and redeveloped by the Extell Development Corporation in 2008.
Mr. Plumeri, a part owner of the Trenton Thunder minor league baseball team, had purchased the apartment through a limited liability company in 2010 for about $21 million. He put the unit back on the market in 2013 for $32 million after a full renovation, during which time he complained about structural defects that had surfaced.
The nearly 8,400-square-foot apartment has sweeping views of the Met, the Central Park reservoir and the cityscape. There are six bedrooms, seven full baths and two half baths, along with a library, a paneled study with a bar and a fireplace, and formal living and dining rooms. Its enormous master suite has a sitting room, as well as two bathrooms and two large dressing rooms, one with another bar.
THE PENTHOUSE AT 432 PARK — No. 94B, a half-floor unit — sold just three months after it was placed on the market, though for well below the $40.5 million asking price. (Its sister unit, No. 94A, was listed at the same time and is still available, for $41 million.)
A sponsor apartment, the home has around 4,000 square feet, three bedrooms and three and a half baths, as well as a library with a fireplace. The master suite has dual walk-in closets and a marble bathroom with a separate soaking tub.
This unit has panoramic city views and is two floors below the top-floor penthouse, which sold in September 2016 for almost $87.7 million. The concrete and glass skyscraper, between 56th and 57th Streets, is currently the tallest residential building in the Western Hemisphere, topping out at 1,396 feet.
MR. WEINSTEIN, who has been accused by several women of sexual misconduct stretching back decades, sold his four-story brick townhouse at 13 Bank Street, near Greenwich Avenue, for $25.6 million in a private sale. He had purchased the 5,000-square-foot house in 2006 for nearly $15 million, and used the limited liability company Thirban Realty Holdings in both transactions. The buyer was identified in property records as Cheget LLC.
The townhouse closing came just days after the company he co-founded, the Weinstein Company, filed for federal bankruptcy protection in Delaware. The company had been struggling financially after the accusations of sexual harassment became public last year; Mr. Weinstein was fired as the chief executive in October and his wife filed for divorce.
In recent months, Mr. Weinstein has been selling other real estate holdings, including a seven-bedroom house in the Hamptons for $10 million.
MR. IMMELT AND HIS WIFE, ANDREA, received $8 million for their apartment, unit 41E at One Beacon Court, at 151 East 58th Street, between Lexington and Third Avenues. The couple bought the three-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bath unit for $4 million in 2005, just after the condominium opened. The 2,400-square-foot apartment was last listed for $8.65 million. Mr. Immelt served as the chairman and chief executive of General Electric from 2001 to 2017.
Ms. Kleine, who was the president of Tory Burch from 2005 to 2016, and Robert C. Micheletto, sold a townhouse at 154 West 11th Street for nearly $7.6 million, slightly below their $7.8 million asking price in September. They bought the house in 2005 for $3.2 million. The 20-foot-wide, three-story brick structure was built in 1845 and is in the Greenwich Village Historic District. It has three bedrooms and two and a half baths over 2,400 square feet, along with a small backyard garden.
MS. HECHT AND MR. BERNSTEIN’S APARTMENT — No. 6D at Alwyn Court apartments, at 180 West 58th Street, on the corner of Seventh Avenue — sold for $3 million. The unit has three bedrooms and three baths. Though renovated, many prewar features remain, including decorative moldings, high ceilings and a wood-burning fireplace.
Ms. Hecht has appeared in numerous TV shows, including “Friends,” where she had a recurring role, and “Breaking Bad,” which Mr. Bernstein had directed. His directing credits also include episodes of “30 Rock” and “Shameless.”
The estate of Mr. Shaffer, a knighted playwright who received Tonys for the dramas “Equus” and “Amadeus,” sold his co-op penthouse at 173 Riverside Drive, near West 90th Street, for $6.6 million. The unit has five bedrooms and three baths. Mr. Shaffer died in June 2016 at the age of 90.
Mr. Malik, the singer, paid $10.7 million for a sixth-floor penthouse loft at 63 Greene Street, a condo conversion in SoHo’s Cast Iron Historic District. He made the purchase through a limited liability company called Drop Zed Properties NYC, and his personal assistant, Shareena Harnett, signed the deed. The 3,600-square-foot apartment has four bedrooms and four baths. There is also 1,061-square-foot private roof terrace.
Advertisement