
By MICHAEL GOLD and KATIE ROGERSMARCH 29, 2018

President Trump renewed his attacks against Amazon on Saturday, claiming on Twitter that the Postal Service loses billions of dollars shipping packages for the online giant. He also accused The Washington Post — which is owned by Jeff Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon — of functioning as a “lobbyist” on behalf of the retailer.

            While we are on the subject, it is reported that the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon. That amounts to Billions of Dollars. The Failing N.Y. Times reports that “the size of the company’s lobbying staff has ballooned,” and that...        

            ...does not include the Fake Washington Post, which is used as a “lobbyist” and should so REGISTER. If the P.O. “increased its parcel rates, Amazon’s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.” This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!        
Here is our earlier fact-check on Mr. Trump’s assertions about Amazon, with some updates.
President Trump assailed Amazon on Thursday, accusing the online retail giant of paying “little or no taxes to state & local governments,” while taking advantage of the United States Postal Service and “causing tremendous loss to the U.S.”

            I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!        
The remarks, made in a Twitter post, followed reports that Mr. Trump had expressed an interest in reining in the company. But it was not the first time Mr. Trump has criticized Amazon or its chief executive, Jeff Bezos.
Amazon’s stock price dropped in early trading Thursday after the president’s comments. But his Twitter post lacked important context about the Postal Service and relied on outdated and incorrect facts regarding Amazon’s taxes. Here is an assessment of the president’s claims.
Advertisement
Mr. Trump has made similar claims before about Amazon’s tax payments, both as president and a private citizen. After he mentioned it in August 2017, The New York Times reported:
If Mr. Trump’s point was that Amazon did not collect sales taxes — which are owed by the purchaser and collected by the retailer — it is true that the company once avoided doing so.
“If this was five years ago, the tweet would be making a very compelling point,” said Carl Davis, the research director of the left-leaning Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy. Historically, “there is no doubt that Amazon used its ability to not collect sales tax to gain a competitive advantage.”
But that criticism is outdated.
How outdated? In 2012, Amazon began collecting and paying state taxes in California. Since April 2017, Amazon has collected sales taxes in all states that levy one.
Advertisement
Additionally, in its latest annual report to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Amazon said it paid $957 million in income taxes in 2017. The company previously reported paying $412 million in income taxes in 2016, $273 million in 2015 and $177 million in 2014, according to the commission.
Those totals can include taxes that are paid on state, federal and foreign income — although the filing does not specifically break down the amounts for each.
An analysis published in February by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy concluded that Amazon did not pay any federal taxes in 2017. It cited the company’s S.E.C. filing in concluding that Amazon took advantage of a variety of tax breaks and credits to avoid paying federal taxes.
Mr. Trump has also previously criticized the relationship between Amazon and the Postal Service. In December, the president  denounced the agency on Twitter for losing billions of dollars when it could be “charging MUCH MORE” to Amazon and other shippers.

            Why is the United States Post Office, which is losing many billions of dollars a year, while charging Amazon and others so little to deliver their packages, making Amazon richer and the Post Office dumber and poorer? Should be charging MUCH MORE!        
It is true the Postal Service has consistently reported net losses for a decade; the last time it reported net income from its operations was the 2006 fiscal year. In the 2017 fiscal year, the agency reported a net loss of $2.7 billion; the previous three years, it incurred losses of nearly twice that amount.
The beginning of the 2018 fiscal year suggested the organization was not turning its fortunes around. In the first quarter, which included the December holiday season that typically brings its strongest earnings of the year, the Postal Service had a net loss of $540 million.
Those losses cannot be attributed to Amazon shipments alone, however, and the president’s Twitter posts have lacked context. Notably, packages and shipping are areas of growth for the Postal Service that have offset its general shortfalls in revenue.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Postal Service attributes much of its financial woe to a prolonged decline in the volume of marketing mail and first-class mail — bills, birthday cards and, for example, bridal shower invitations. Its mail business is still its “main source of revenue and contribution,” the postmaster general, Megan J. Brennan, said in a statement in February.
Advertisement
In large part because of the internet — online bill pay, Facebook birthday posts and e-vites — the volume of first-class mail being sent through the Postal Service has decreased 43 percent since 2001, when it last peaked.
Still, Mr. Trump’s assertion that the Postal Service is leaving money on the table may have some truth to it. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup concluded that the agency was charging below market rates for package delivery.
If that is the case, Amazon, widely believed to be one of the Postal Service’s biggest customers, certainly benefits.
The report estimated that if the agency increased its parcel rates, Amazon’s shipping costs would rise by about $2.6 billion. Some of that money would presumably go to the Postal Service, which in 2014 handled 40 percent of Amazon’s packages, according to one 2015 estimate.
The report also suggested that Amazon’s high shipment volume gives it a greater opportunity to negotiate rates with shippers. Amazon has acknowledged in the past that it has an arrangement with the Postal Service, but it has rejected the idea that its shipments are being subsidized by the agency.
In a 2017 statement, Amazon said that its partnership with the Postal Service was “reviewed annually by the Postal Regulatory Commission,” which found its contracts to be profitable.
The Postal Service’s chief financial officer, Joseph Corbett, has also defended the agency’s shipping rates. In a letter in July to The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Corbett wrote that the Postal Service’s “competitive package products, including those that we deliver for Amazon,” are legally required to cover the costs incurred.
People close to Mr. Trump say that his disdain for Amazon (and, by association, for Mr. Bezos) is often set off by his anger at negative articles in The Washington Post. On Friday, the newspaper published a report detailing how Mr. Trump’s legal battles have affected his business empire.
The Post, as it noted in another article on Saturday, operates independently of Amazon.
Jim Tankersley, Alan Rappeport and Linda Qiu contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2018, on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Presidential Criticism That Fails to Deliver.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »