

                On Washington            
By                     
                                    CARL HULSE
                            
                MARCH 30, 2018
    
WASHINGTON — President Trump insisted he will never again sign a huge catchall spending measure of the sort he just grudgingly approved to fund the government. But he will probably have little choice if he wants to keep the government open in the future.
The steady deterioration of the congressional appropriations process makes it extremely unlikely that this president, or any future president, will ever receive the annual spending bills the old-fashioned way — one or two at a time with the opportunity to reconcile policy disputes with Congress without shutting down the entire government.
Given the current state of political warfare and congressional dysfunction, the too-big-to-veto omnibus bill seems here to stay, absent some momentous change in culture and process.
“There is no way around it,” acknowledged Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania and a veteran member of the House Appropriations Committee.
Advertisement
One main reason for the pessimistic outlook is that the Senate, for various political and logistical reasons, has essentially given up on the time-honored method of considering individual spending bills on the floor after they have been hashed out in committee.
Advertisement
The threat of a slew of politically charged amendments, the need for 60 votes to move any spending legislation and the reluctance of the leadership to devote the necessary floor time to debate the bills have effectively ended public review of the 12 annual spending bills by the full Senate.
What that means is that most senators have no real opportunity to try to influence the individual spending measures and are instead presented with the take-it-or-leave-it choice they faced last week when they could either vote for a 2,232-page, $1.3 trillion spending measure with many provisions they supported — notably a big increase in Pentagon spending — or balk and be responsible for shutting down the government. Those options left many lawmakers dissatisfied, including some of those most closely involved in writing the legislation.
“I would rather we brought these bills to the floor one at a time,” said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri and a member of the spending panel, who lamented the packaging of the bills. “It didn’t used to be that way. It has been that way for about 10 years now. It needs to stop. Every member needs to have a right to be able to amend these bills, to bring them to the floor one or two at a time, have a real debate.”
Congressional leaders say they don’t like jamming the spending bills through en bloc, but there are real incentives for them to continue to do so because it concentrates considerable power in their hands.
Top Republican and Democratic leaders were able to cut some of the most significant deals in the legislation among themselves behind closed doors. The current process empowers both the leadership and the members of the appropriations committees, some of whom believe they are accumulating too much clout at the expense of rank-and-file opinion.
“This is one area where the breakdown of the regular order doesn’t serve the country or the Congress very well,” said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, a senior Republican member of the Appropriations Committee.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Another obstacle in the appropriations process for Mr. Cole and his fellow Republicans has been the refusal of some of their most conservative colleagues to back any spending bills because of their opposition to the amounts or to the individual provisions.
Advertisement
That requires Republicans to compromise with Democrats to find the votes to pass the must-pass bills both in the House and the Senate, thus providing Democrats huge leverage they exerted very successfully in the recent clash by remaining unified.
Democrats could not have been happier with the spending legislation that Mr. Trump signed while holding his nose.
“If you would have told me that with a Republican president, Republican House and Republican Senate we would have done as well as we’ve done, I would have laughed at you,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. He went on to say that spending gains for Democratic priorities under President Trump exceeded those under President Barack Obama.
“Once Republicans did the tax bill with a huge deficit, their ostensible reason for not liking domestic spending — the deficit — vanished,” he said.
Aides to Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader — and a veteran appropriator himself — said he still preferred the old-fashioned way of considering the bills. He will now be under substantial pressure from disgruntled senators to make that happen.
“There are a lot of people upset, and understandably so,” said Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, who said Republicans needed to do whatever necessary to force debate on the spending bills, even if it meant extended sessions that left lawmakers exhausted. “We have allowed the power to accumulate and be vested in just a few people.”
Restless lawmakers demanding more opinion may get some help from a change in the committee’s leadership with the departure of Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, the ailing chairman.
Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama and the incoming chairman, has been assuring colleagues that he wants to return to the old ways of bringing individual bills to the floor — though floor time is ultimately apportioned by Mr. McConnell.
Advertisement
With overall spending levels already set for the coming year in a two-year budget compromise, the Appropriations Committees can get an early start on drafting their bills, potentially providing the House and Senate more debate time. In addition, a special committee has been created to recommend ways to fix the budget and appropriations process, putting pressure on lawmakers to show they can still deliver.
Many lawmakers believe the increasingly elusive “regular order” is still the best way to go.
“I just long for the old days,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and a longtime appropriator.
But the bad spending habits of Congress have become deeply ingrained and have provided significant advantages for some at the top of the congressional food chain. Breaking out of them could prove impossible, and Mr. Trump would find himself presented yet again with the exact type of legislation he vowed to reject.
Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »