
Advertisement
Supported by
Mini-Vows
By Rosalie R. Radomsky
Sally Corbette Newman and Romain Philippe Guimard were married March 31 at Mepkin Abbey, a Trappist monastery in Charleston, S.C. Adair F. Boroughs, a notary in South Carolina, officiated, with Harry T. Edwards, a senior circuit judge and the chief judge emeritus of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in Washington, leading the ceremony.
Ms. Newman, 35, is a lawyer at Charleston Legal Access, a nonprofit organization she founded in 2016 that provides representation and advocacy to moderate- and low-income South Carolinians. She graduated from Dartmouth, and received a law degree from N.Y.U.
She is the daughter of Nancy Houska of Carlisle, Pa., and Joe Newman of Cardwell, Mont.
Mr. Guimard, 38, is an acrobat with Compagnie XY, a touring French contemporary circus collective. He completed training in circus arts at the Centre Régional des arts du cirque de Lomme in France.
Mr. Guimard is the son of Joëlle Lebas of Grigny, France, and Dr. Pierre Guimard of Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois, France.
In 2013 when Ms. Newman, who does acroyoga (yoga plus acrobatics) and circus arts on the side, heard her friend was about to host Mr. Guimard, a bona fide French acrobat, through Couchsurfing.com, she persuaded her friend to let him stay with her instead.
“You don’t get a ton of opportunities to host a professional circus performer,” said Ms. Newman, who had been dazzled by his circus troupe at the Spoleto Festival in Charleston.
“It’s a contemporary circus, not big-top Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey stuff,” she said. “It’s a lot more muted, a lot more modern. It’s a magical spectacle.”
She took a break from work that afternoon to screen him over coffee at Normandy Farm Artisan Bakery in downtown Charleston, and after they managed to connect and communicate, despite the fact she spoke little French and he little English, she handed over the keys.
“It was very natural with Sally,” said Mr. Guimard, who took in local sights on his own by day, and spent evenings with her.
During his three-day stay they practiced acroyoga in a park overlooking the harbor, he cooked dinner with lentils and vegetables, which Ms. Newman, described as “phenomenal,” as soon he removed the cilantro, which she said she absolutely “hates,” and he also helped her refine her aerial performance for a local circus festival.
“He was looking at the way I was moving, and helped me find authenticity,” said Ms. Newman, who took to the air entwined in aerial ribbons of fabric draped from an adjustable rig attached to the ceiling in her apartment. “‘Everything cares,’” she recalled him saying. “‘Every part of your act cares about the rest of your act.’”
They said their goodbyes the morning he left for the airport, but once he got there he realized he had left his leather jacket and camera behind.
“So I took a cab to go back downtown,” he said. “She was still at the apartment. I was rushing. We kissed for the first time. It was the last moment after the last moment.”
Before boarding he went through photos on his camera, and noticed she had taken a few selfies.
“It was very cute,” he said. “I was smiling for a week after.”
They began emailing and texting, and in September he visited her in Washington while she was clerking for Judge Edwards. They soon decided not to let more than two months go by without seeing each other.
“Romain is very adaptable,” Ms. Newman said. “He made the relationship possible in many small ways.”
In January of this year, when Ms. Newman received a diagnosis of osteosarcoma, a bone cancer, Mr. Guimard, who was performing in Salzburg, Austria, immediately booked a flight to be with her at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. (In March they spent two weeks in New York while Ms. Newman was being treated at Memorial Sloan Kettering.)
“I’m still the same,” Mr. Guimard recalled her saying as soon as he saw her in Minnesota. “This is true,” he said. “She makes the world a better place.”
Advertisement