
Advertisement
Supported by
Emily Louise Cashman and Harrell Raso Kirstein were married March 29 at the Manchester City Hall in Manchester N.H. Joanne Doukeris, a member of the city clerk’s office, officiated. On March 31, Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire and a friend of the couple, led an exchange of vows at the Bedford Village Inn, a hotel in Bedford, N.H.
The bride, 32, works in Washington as the senior manager of government affairs at Thorn, a nonprofit organization based in San Francisco that builds technology to defend children from sexual abuse. From 2010 to 2016, the bride worked in various positions for Senator Shaheen. She also worked as the trip director for Hillary Clinton’s general election campaign in New Hampshire in 2016. She graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., and received a master’s degree in international relations from the Universidad Autónoma de Madrid in Spain.
She is the daughter of Madeline Q. Cashman and Brian A. Cashman of Litchfield, N.H. The bride’s father retired as a special agent in the Andover, Mass., field office of the Defense Security Service, a federal security agency of the Defense Department based in Quantico, Va. Her mother is a teacher at the Matthew Thornton Elementary School in Londonderry, N.H.
The groom, 31, is the communications director for the Trump War Room for American Bridge 21st Century, a democratic opposition research group in Washington. He served as the communications director for Ms. Shaheen’s re-election campaign in 2014 as well as in communication positions in Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign.
He is a son of Melinda R. Kirstein and Philip L. Kirstein of Princeton, N.J. The groom’s mother retired as a fixed-income portfolio manager in the Plainsboro, N.J., office of Merrill Lynch. She currently works as an independent trustee of the WisdomTree Trust board in New York. His father retired as the senior officer and independent compliance officer of the AllianceBernstein mutual funds in New York.
The couple met in 2010 while both were working for the New Hampshire Democratic Party.
Advertisement