

                Renters            
By                     
                                    KIM VELSEY
                            
                APRIL 2, 2018
    
When touring a potential apartment, many New Yorkers would be alarmed to see a construction shed next door, let alone a demolition site in the backyard. But Jeremy Vieira wasn’t the least bit concerned when his broker took him to see an apartment in the middle of Hudson Yards, the largest construction site in the city.
In fact, he was delighted that he could see several buildings going up around the studio apartment. What could be more fitting for a would-be developer, Mr. Vieira thought, than watching a new neighborhood rise outside his windows?
“I love to see how things get created,” said Mr. Vieira, 34, who moved to New York last May to enroll in the master’s program in real estate development at Columbia University. “It’s almost like watching a baby grow. Even though I don’t have anything to do with it, it’s satisfying.”
He has quite an action-packed view: On a recent afternoon, no fewer than three construction cranes were visible from the windows of his 21st-floor apartment at 435 W. 31st Street, including one whose operation had shut down a block of West 32nd Street. Directly beneath him was a staging area that will someday be a public plaza, and on the far side of that plaza, a construction elevator was chugging up the side of One Manhattan West, the tallest building in Manhattan West, Brookfield Properties’ section of the mega-project.
Advertisement
Alluring as it was, living in a construction zone wasn’t the only thing that drew Mr. Vieira, a former financial analyst from Boston, to his building, known as The Eugene. On previous visits to the city, he always ended up hanging out by the High Line, so he started his apartment search in the West Village.
“But everything was so small,” he said. “And those prewar walk-ups … I’m not one for exercise.”
His broker, intuiting that an older studio might not be for Mr. Vieira, suggested they check out The Eugene. With a listed rent of roughly $3,500 a month, the studio they saw cost more than Mr. Vieira had been looking to pay. But “as soon as I walked in, I was like, ‘All right, this is it,’” he said. “I recognized the designers right away, and I was like, ‘This is the one.’”

            Age: 34Occupation: Mr. Vieira is completing a master’s degree in real estate development at Columbia University. Previously, he was a financial analyst at MetLife in Boston, where he grew up.Rent: $3,000 a month, with a lease concession of two free months of rent.After renovating and selling two single-family houses:  Mr. Vieira decided he wanted to work in real estate development. Ever since he was a child: “I had a love of architecture and the built environment. We’d go to Disney World and I’d want to see Celebration, Fla.” He also has a flair for decoration:  He sold his second house completely furnished. “The houses were like my babies, so when I moved I was like, ‘Take it all, keep it perfect,’” he said.  Decorating his Hudson Yards studio:  “I started with the vibe of the building, which is very midcentury, and there’s a lot of brass throughout,” he said. “I did a couple of mood boards. I bought the bed and the rug, and then I went on Craigslist.”He did bring several pieces of art from Boston: including two “dirt-cheap” paintings from a charity auction, a watercolor done by his sister and a framed chest X-ray of his father, “who came from Portugal when he was 15 — they used to check for TB. It reminds me of my immigrant background.” He loves the roof: for doing homework and grilling rib-eye steaks from Whole Foods.His least favorite space in the building: is the gym. “The gym is an amenity I should use, but…”        
As luck would have it, Brookfield Properties was offering two months of free rent — perhaps suspecting that not all potential renters would be as enthused by the hubbub of development as Mr. Vieira was. And that brought his net-effective rent down to about $3,000 a month.
Advertisement
While some might have been inclined to penny-pinch in his situation — seeking out a spot in more budget-friendly neighborhoods, as many Columbia grad students do — Mr. Vieira reasoned that “coming here was going to be expensive regardless. And I was like, ‘If I’m going to do New York, I’m going to do it big.’”
Mr. Vieira decided to attend the program at Columbia after renovating one single-family house and building another in the Boston area, saving the money to buy the first by living with his parents.
He had studied architecture in college, but found he disliked the work. Renovating the two houses, though, was an entirely different experience.
“I loved it when they put in the cabinets. I loved it when they put in the countertop. I loved to see every little iteration,” said Mr. Vieira, who hopes to work for a large affordable-housing developer when he graduates this spring.
As part of his program, he often tours new developments, which never fails to validate his decision to move into his building. “All of them are shiny and glamorous — that’s what draws you in,” he said. “But usually the man at the front desk is very disinterested. That’s not the experience here. Here there’s Justine and Kevin and Stefan and Gerard and Jeremy and Achilles and Liam.”
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Having come from living in a three-bedroom house, he is also grateful for the shared spaces afforded by a building with amenities: He regularly uses the rooftop for grilling and as a place to do homework, and uses the library for studying. And he recently hosted a viewing party for New England Patriots fans in the media room.
He even decided to start taking piano lessons — something he has wanted to do for years — after seeing the grand piano in an upstairs lounge.
“I decided I was doing all these new things, I might as well do that, too,” he said. “With the fireplace there, it’s enough ambience to convince me to practice. And it’s a nice break from school: I pour myself a glass of wine and go up.”
Advertisement
He added: “Right now, I’m trying to learn to play ‘Can You Feel the Love Tonight.’ But it’s not going well.”
His 14-month lease is up in July, at which point, job-permitting, he intends to stay and maybe even upgrade. He has his eye on a one-bedroom on the 56th floor, from which you can see One World Trade Center and the Statue of Liberty.
The only drawback? The construction-free view.
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2018, on Page RE4 of the New York edition with the headline: An Aspiring Developer Chooses a Construction Zone.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »