

                What You Get            
By                     
                                    JULIE LASKY
                            
                APRIL 4, 2018
    

            Credit        
WHAT A 1935 home with two bedrooms and one and three-quarter bathrooms
HOW MUCH $700,000
SIZE 1,820 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $385
SETTING The house is in West Seattle, half a mile from a large park on Puget Sound with running trails and a swimming pool, and about two miles from the trendy shops and restaurants of the Junction neighborhood.
INDOORS An arched door with a stained-glass window opens to a bright foyer. Next to it is a living room with a recently installed gas fireplace. The current owners put their dining table in this room and turned the adjacent dining room into a family room. In the kitchen, they kept the original cabinets but updated the rest with oversize subway tile, Restoration Hardware light fixtures, quartz countertops and luxury vinyl flooring.
Two bedrooms are on the upper level, one with a small en-suite study. The bedrooms share a full bathroom. The basement level has a second bathroom with a shower. There is also a laundry area.
Advertisement
OUTDOOR SPACE The .13-acre property includes a backyard patio and raised garden beds. A detached two-car garage includes an upper storage area.
Advertisement
TAXES $5,069 (2017)
CONTACT Sarah Mosley, John L. Scott Real Estate, 206-849-7977; sarahmo.johnlscott.com
•
WHAT An 1880 brick home in Bucks County with four bedrooms, three and a half bathrooms and a separate one-bedroom cottage
HOW MUCH $695,000
SIZE 3,800 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $183
SETTING  This Victorian home — in a village a mile and a half west of the Delaware River town of Riegelsville and about 70 miles from Manhattan — originally belonged to the proprietor of a window-and-sash factory who also owned the local gristmill. The house was built to impress, with arched windows surmounted by curved details in glass and brick and lacy woodwork on the gables and porches.
INDOORS The current owner, a restorer of historic houses, bought the property in 2012 after it had been vacant for several years. He updated the mechanicals, installing tankless hot-water heaters and a new septic system, as well as separate heating and cooling units in each room.
The double arched front door, which is almost 10 feet high, has panes of hand-etched glass with a botanical motif. Double parlors flank the entrance hall. On the right, two walls have been removed to create a continuous living-and-dining space that is 47 feet long and terminates in an updated kitchen. To the left of the entrance is a room with an exposed brick wall and built-in bookshelves. The floors throughout the main level and elsewhere in the home are the original heart-pine wood.
Upstairs, the master suite has his-and-her closets and a bathroom with a double vanity, a walk-in shower and a whirlpool tub. Three additional bedrooms have access to a second full bathroom. A second-floor balcony offers views of the millrace, or channel that runs through the property carrying water that once powered the gristmill (and the ironworks that occupied the site in colonial times).
Every week, get updates on residential real estate news, covering the five boroughs and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The millrace runs under a renovated one-bedroom cottage behind the main house, which is currently used as a short-stay rental.
Advertisement
OUTDOOR SPACE The home has a large front porch, a small side porch and a three-level stone patio descending to the millrace. The 1.18-acre property includes a barn renovated to include a workshop and a two-car garage.
TAXES $9,788 (2017)
CONTACT Doug Pearson, Kurfiss Sotheby’s International Realty, 267-907-2590; kurfiss.com
•
WHAT A 1932 log cabin with three bedrooms and two bathrooms
HOW MUCH $695,000
SIZE 2,136 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $325
SETTING This home is near the Indiana state border, in a vacation area on Lake Michigan popular with Chicagoans. Downtown Chicago is 60 miles away; on a clear day you can see the city from the beach, 200 feet from the property. The area is wooded, with deer and fox among the local wildlife.
INDOORS The building is said to be a prototype for Michiana’s many log homes, and its vintage features have been preserved. They include pine floors and paneling that have developed a rich patina with age, and a stone living room fireplace.
The house is set on a stone foundation; the main level is reached by an exterior flight of steps surrounded by rhododendrons and other greenery. Entry is through a screened front porch to a large living-and-dining room with a trussed, vaulted ceiling and curtains made from Hudson’s Bay blankets. (Many of the vintage furnishings will be included in the sale.)
Wrapped around the back is an L-shaped sleeping porch with a continuous ribbon of screened windows and a wood stove. A small den that could be used as a bedroom has a built-in sofa, bookshelves and wall cabinet. The kitchen has its original pine cabinets and a vintage stove, as well as a Fisher & Paykel dishwasher.
The two main bedrooms each have French doors opening to the sleeping porch. They share a bathroom with a pedestal sink and an Art Deco-style bathtub.
Advertisement
The basement has another full bathroom and an area with a sink that could be used for potting. A door leads directly outside.
OUTDOOR SPACE The .28-acre property includes a patio. The attached garage is currently used as a workshop.
TAXES $3,533
CONTACT Donna Iwamoto, Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, 312-925-2165; coldwellbanker.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »