
Advertisement
Supported by
The Hunt
By Joyce Cohen
During and after graduate school at Pace University, Haoran Yang lived in Chelsea with roommates.
Then, three years ago, she found a new roommate situation on Craigslist and moved into a one-bedroom condominium in Midtown East near Sutton Place. For $1,600 a month, she occupied the bedroom. The condominium’s owner, a retired woman who traveled often, took a curtained-off corner of the living room.
“We’ve become like a family,” said Ms. Yang, who came to New York from China to study finance. “I am a twentysomething and she is older than my mom, and she treated me like a daughter.”
Late last summer, Ms. Yang landed a new job in her field, financial services, and decided it was time for her own place. A friend referred her to Sangmi Park, a licensed salesperson at Keller Williams TriBeCa. She knew she needed help with the hunt — it would save her time, she said, and give her access to more options.
Ms. Yang, now 29, wanted a decent kitchen and a location with an easy commute to her Midtown office.
For her monthly budget, $2,000 to $2,200, she assumed she would find a studio in a doorman building, similar to the condo building. But Ms. Park told her that if she wanted more space — and didn’t mind giving up amenities like an elevator or laundry room — she could instead get a one-bedroom in a no-frills building on the Upper East Side.
“That’s perfect, because I don’t mind a walk-up,” Ms. Yang said. “I have a lot of stuff, and I feel more comfortable if I have a separate room.”
One evening last fall, Ms. Park took her to see two relatively spacious top-floor one-bedrooms in the East 70s, each for $2,150. One faced Third Avenue.
“I could hear the traffic come and go,” Ms. Yang said. “Even at 6 or 7 p.m., the avenue is very busy.”
And the kitchen was a collection of appliances against a wall. The apartment felt outdated — but not as outdated as the second unit they saw, which faced away from the avenue.
The next day was tightly scheduled. A one-bedroom for $2,000, also in the East 70s, was nicely renovated. But while the pictures made it look spacious, the bedroom was tiny and the hallway narrow.
Ms. Yang and Ms. Park moved on to the East 80s, where the saw a building with two one-bedrooms available, on the top floor and the ground floor; the rents were $2,150 and $2,300, respectively.
Ms. Yang fell for the sunny top-floor apartment, with its open kitchen. But the listing agent, en route, informed them by text that it had been rented earlier that morning.
The ground-floor unit wasn’t ideal. “The layout was like a train, long and skinny,” Ms. Yang said. Plus, it faced the trash cans.
Most of all, it was situated just beyond the building’s entrance, with its double doors.
“I’ve never lived in that kind of building,” Ms. Yang said. “The door slams so hard. I didn’t want to live on the ground floor in an apartment close to the door.” In her previous doorman buildings, the door was always open and attended.
But she was encouraged. The apartments she had seen were generally livable. Still, even if a place was otherwise fine, there was often one dealbreaker: a noisy street, a dingy bathroom, a tiny bedroom.
Nearby, another top-floor apartment was available for $2,100. Up they climbed.
This one was still occupied. It had two windows looking out onto the street, a separate eat-in kitchen and a quiet bedroom facing the back. And Ms. Yang was excited to learn that the outgoing tenant was eager to sell some furniture.
“Usually, a $2,100 apartment doesn’t look this finished,” Ms. Park said. “We took action right away.” Ms. Yang left a deposit on the spot.
Two more places were still on the schedule, but one was on busy East 72nd Street and the other, on Second Avenue near her old neighborhood, was dimly lit.
“It was obvious what was the best out of all of them,” Ms. Park said. “The space was right, the location was right, and the furniture really helped.”
Ms. Yang paid a broker’s fee of 15 percent of a year’s rent, or almost $3,800, and arrived last winter.
For $550, she bought from the departing tenant the sofa — just a year old and originally from Ikea — as well as a large wardrobe against a living-room wall.
“Most people want a no-fee apartment, but she was willing to see all the options to find the best one for her, because she is planning to live there for a long time,” Ms. Park said.
Ms. Yang ordered some additional furniture and “a lot of cooking utilities, because I cook almost every day,” she said.
Her only disappointment is the uneven floor, which slopes so much her kitchen table tilts. “When you walk, you can feel the floor is not even,” she said. “When I am eating dinner, I feel my food is falling.”
Everything else, however, is to her liking. “I am very happy for this small place,” she said.
EMAIL thehunt@nytimes.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.



Advertisement