
Advertisement
Supported by

30 Photos
View Slide Show ›
Daniel Gonzalez for The New York Times
By Kim Velsey
When Rose Giuliano’s grandmother died in 2014, the thought of selling the Brooklyn apartment building that had been in her family for 125 years was so unbearable that she and her husband moved back east from the San Francisco Bay Area to manage the property.
Her great-great-grandfather, an Italian immigrant, had bought the six-unit building in Greenpoint, at 146 Newton Street, in 1889, moving into one apartment and filling the others with members of his extended family. Ms. Giuliano’s grandmother was born in the building and when she married, her husband, who grew up nearby, joined her there.
“Even when they got older, and we were like, ‘You can go to Florida,’ I don’t think she could envision herself in any other place but that house — that house, that neighborhood, that community,” Ms. Giuliano said. “In the summer, they would sit on the stoop and play cards. The block was her family. She just seemed of that place, a certain place in time.”
Ms. Giuliano and her husband lived in her grandparents’ old apartment for a little over three years. But while the building itself was as she remembered it from childhood visits — the murals of Naples in the halls, the dumbwaiter they used to play with, the smell of fermented grapes that emanated from the corner of the basement where her grandfather made wine — nothing else was.
The buildings all around them were being torn down and gutted, the businesses her grandparents once frequented were long gone and the other apartments were filled with tenants, not family members.
“It isn’t what it was. It can’t be what it was. It just becomes a business, and do you want that?” said Ms. Giuliano, whose family finally sold the building this winter. “I felt super-conflicted. Is my grandmother’s ghost still walking the halls? I’m sad letting it go, but I don’t know how to hold on and preserve it anymore.”
Of all possible family heirlooms, a home is perhaps the most complicated: a thing of tangible value, that can be lived in or sold, rented out or passed down through the generations. Used as a primary residence or shared happily as a second home, it can number among the most practical of legacies. Some families manage to keep the same house for hundreds of years, recipes and rituals repeating across the years as new generations fill the rooms, castoffs and treasures collecting in the corners.
Most, however, do not. The 2016 American Community Survey found that the median length of homeownership in the United States was 13 years. Unlike a painting or a ring, a house can be a very expensive heirloom to keep, and for many families, it changes at some point from a beloved home to a costly albatross.
Children move away, heirs multiply, and old houses need work. Often, financial value accrues along with the sentimental, making it difficult, if not impossible, for any one family member to buy the others out. None of which necessarily makes confronting the reality of selling a family property any less difficult.
Five years ago, Enid Thoms and her husband, Arthur, decided to sell a stately Georgian house in Kennebunk, Me., that had been in her family since 1801.
“When we put it on the market, I cried all weekend,” Ms. Thoms said. “I’m very partial to that house, and I feel very bad about being the last. But now I’m 80 and infirm, and it has become more a burden than a joy.”
Her great-great-grandfather, Hugh McCulloch, was a shipbuilder whose boatyard lay behind the house’s seven acres on the Kennebunk River. His son, of the same name, served as Secretary of the Treasury under three presidents, including Abraham Lincoln, and was among those in the room when Lincoln died. She remembers her grandmother, who grew up traveling around the world with her father and spoke five languages, as a very formal woman, who once, when sick with a cold, greeted her by simply saying, “Consider yourself embraced.”
“It wasn’t until we got the house that we started enjoying it,” said Ms. Thoms, whose parents took it over when she was in college. She and Mr. Thoms were married in the dining room, during a blizzard, in front of one of the house’s six fireplaces.
Once the Kennebunk house sells, the Thoms plan to live year-round in their more modest home in Ocala, Fla. But as they have discovered, selling a property that has been in your family for 217 years presents more than emotional hurdles.
Though the house is in good condition, with a museum-quality interior and a freshly painted exterior, and is now asking $598,000 (about a third less than it was first listed at), they have found that many buyers are more interested in air conditioning than in having wallpaper from 1785 or a convertible ballroom on the second floor.
“Every year we go up in the spring, and every year, when September comes and it hasn’t sold, we say, ‘The heck with it, we don’t want to get rid of it anyway,’” Mr. Thoms said.
Deborah Rainey, the broker for Georgia Realty Sales, a firm based in Washington, Ga., currently has a listing for a Greek Revival mansion that has been in the same family since it was built in 1818 — which is not uncommon, she noted, in the historic town.
“Selling here is an art — the families are on no timeline, and they’re all emotional sales,” she said. “And it seems that no sooner do I sell one than I have family members come back and say, ‘I would have kept that.’”
Not long ago, one seller backed out of a signed contract with a couple from Boston after deciding that she couldn’t part with the old family home after all.
Others are so attached that they continue to return after the sale. Years ago, Ms. Rainey bought a house in South Carolina right over the Georgia border from the second family that had ever owned it. The deed stipulated that the original family had to approve the sale. And to her surprise, their oversight didn’t end there: After the sale closed, she would often find the matriarch sitting in her yard.
“I got the house, but I got them, too,” Ms. Rainey said.
Letting go can be hard; not only do some former owners haunt the houses they once inhabited, they say that the houses haunt them, too.
George Howe Colt, who wrote “The Big House: A Century in the Life of an American Summer Home,” about selling his family’s summer house on Cape Cod, said that he still dreams about the house, which sold in 1997.
After the book came out, he got stacks of letters from people who had gone through the same experience. Many apologized that their houses were not very big or distinguished, but all felt, as Mr. Colt had, that it was “the place where our family was most itself,” he said.
“Everyone worried that when they lost the house, they’d lose their families,” Mr. Colt said. “I worried about that, too.”
A house can act as a powerful anchor to the past, connecting those who roam its rooms with people and ways of life that have disappeared.
Mary Idle, 91, spent childhood summers visiting various maiden aunts in Massachusetts, and ending up at her grandmother’s summer house in Chatham. Her grandparents had bought the very old Cape overlooking the harbor in the late 1800s and reveled in its being unspoiled by modern conveniences like electricity and plumbing.
Ms. Idle remembers being dragooned into cleaning the oil lamps with her sister, the nightly ritual of watching the moon rise over the ocean, and playing with her grandmother’s dolls, Ida and Maude, who had petticoats, split underdrawers, little boots and their own four-poster bed.
“It was a very special place, across the street from the lighthouse,” Ms. Idle said, recalling the rhythm of the light at night. “You’d go to sleep with the light going over your bed, over your bed, over your bed.”
When her older brother died recently, the house passed to a number of nieces and nephews scattered across the country. Ms. Idle’s son, Win, who lives in Colorado, was among them. They recently listed the house for $1.75 million.
“We did not come to that conclusion lightly,” Mr. Idle said. “We love that place, but it’s an expensive home and we do not have that kind of money. My brother and I talked about it, but there’s no way we could have bought it out from the others.”
While owning a home that has increased significantly in value is an unalloyed good in almost any other context, it often proves the undoing for a family home with more than one heir.
Michael Hardman was the fourth generation to grow up in a brick townhouse in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, that his great-grandfather bought in the early 1900s. He remembers his parents being so happy when its value hit $30,000.
“I had hoped my kids would be the fifth generation to grow up here,” said Mr. Hardman, who lives in Staten Island with his wife — she grew up down the block in Brooklyn — and their 5-year-old twin boys. But after his mother died, he and his sister discovered that the house had extensive structural damage and would require hundreds of thousands of dollars of work just to be habitable.
“There was no way, no way I could fix the house and pay off my sister, not even with an interest-free loan from her,” said Mr. Hardman, a detective with the New York Police Department. He had wanted, badly, to see it sold to another family, but several potential sales fell through after buyers met with contractors and realized the scope of the project, said Abigail Palanca, an agent with Compass who had the listing.
The siblings sold the house to a local developer for $1.4 million in 2016, and it is now nearing the end of an extensive renovation. It just went back on the market for $2.48 million. On a recent morning, Mr. Hardman and his wife, Mary, stopped by to see it. Walking through, Mr. Hardman greeted the handiwork with exclamations of “wow” and “holy cow,” marveling at how long it must have taken to strip decades of paint from the original woodwork.
“I love it,” he said. “This is what I would have imagined.”
Mr. Hardman moved in with his parents and younger sister in 1977, when he was 8, and seeing the house restored to a better version of itself brought back memories of spying on passers-by from the roof and imagining treasure hidden in the walls by his bootlegging great-grandfather.
“It’s so nice being back. I didn’t want my last memories to be bad,” he said. “I wish my parents were here to see this. Let the next family have four generations in this house, too.”
For some families, selling is not motivated by necessity or practicality, but by a desire for freedom and a fresh start. As much delight as one might draw from an ancestral home, the pull of the future is sometimes greater.
Lianne Miller lives on a 16-acre East Hampton horse farm that has been in her family since the 1700s; the earliest paper deed they have found dates to 1763. She and her husband bought it from her mother and uncle in 1995, after her grandfather’s death, discovering inside the old farmhouse hand-whittled crutches, a double-barreled shotgun and a newspaper announcing the start of the Spanish-American War.
Ms. Miller grew up in Indiana, but she loved visiting her grandfather, an electrician whose pastime was salvaging castoffs left at the dump when the summer people went back to the city. “Being here was like an adventure, he’d show us his treasures,” she said.
He also enjoyed driving slowly down the side of the road, pointing out the monstrosities — that is, modern houses — to his grandchildren.
But in addition to the farm, her family passed down a strong ethos of independence. And so, after her son graduated from high school last year, she decided that it was time to sell. Her husband had died of cancer in 2015 and her two daughters were grown and living in other states. The house no longer suited her needs.
She listed the property for $4.5 million, despite knowing that the “next person may well tear it down. Not everyone likes the ‘Little House on the Prairie’ look as much as I do,” she said.
“I do walk around thinking, ‘I’m really going to miss this place,’” she said. “But if I wanted to stay, I’d stay. I’m just ready to start a new chapter. I’m ready to go. I didn’t see my future being here in East Hampton without my husband.”
When the house sells, she plans to put her things into storage and drive along the Interstate 81 corridor, from Pennsylvania into North Carolina, with her dog and three horses, staying in various towns until she finds one she likes. She feels comfortable with her decision, in part because she knows that her ancestors would have approved.
“When I bought the house, both my parents said, ‘Listen, don’t ever feel that you have to keep it,’” she said. “‘If you get the want to go, go. What good is preserving it if you’re not happy there?’”
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.



Advertisement