
Advertisement
Supported by
In two days on Capitol Hill, the Facebook chief promised numerous lawmakers that he would get back to them with answers to their questions. We counted up that workload. 
By Sheera Frenkel and Tiffany Hsu
Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg — or perhaps more accurately, members of his staff —  are going to be very busy getting through a stack of homework.  
Over two days of congressional hearings this week in which Mr. Zuckerberg was barraged with questions by lawmakers over data privacy, election interference and more, the 33-year-old billionaire was often not able to provide an immediate answer. His standard response in those situations, a variation of “my team will get back to you,” was repeated so often it became an internet meme. 
Here are all the things that Mr. Zuckerberg has committed to getting back to Congress on. Yes, it’s a long list. 
To Senator Chuck Grassley, Republican of Iowa ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would get back to Mr. Grassley on whether his team finds any new examples in which user data was improperly transferred to a third party in breach of Facebook’s terms of service. He also said he would get back to Mr. Grassley on how many outside developers his team has audited to make sure they are following Facebook’s rules. 
To Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would follow up with Ms. Feinstein on the exact number of fake accounts Facebook has removed from the social network.
To Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would get back to Ms. Cantwell on whether Facebook employees ever worked with Cambridge Analytica to help the Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election. 
To Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would circle back to Mr. Wicker on whether Facebook collects call and text history on minors, and whether or not Facebook tracks a user’s internet browsing activity even when they have logged off Facebook. 
To Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would tell Mr. Leahy whether a number of specific pages were part of Russian misinformation operations during the 2016 elections. 
To Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina ...
Mr. Zuckerberg’s to-do item was answering how to have a broad discussion on where the tech industry should be regulated. 
To Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri ...
The Facebook chief said he would get back to Mr. Blunt on whether the company collects data from devices that are not currently logged in to the social network. 
To Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would follow up with Mr. Blumenthal on whether Facebook would  support a number of pieces of legislation. (It was unclear which legislation.)
To Senator Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would get his team to “flesh out the details” with Mr. Markey on a potential privacy bill of rights for minors on the internet. 
To Senator Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would get back to Mr. Udall on whether he, personally, would return to Congress to support the Honest Ads Act. (Mr. Zuckerberg added that he didn’t visit Washington often and that he would likely direct his team to focus on support of the act.)
To Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas ...
The Facebook chief said he would circle back on whether Facebook’s new bounty program on data sharing will also investigate unauthorized access to data. 
To Senator Dean Heller, Republican of Nevada ...
Mr. Zuckerberg had two to-do items with Mr. Heller, including answering how many people in the state of Nevada were part of the 87 million people who may have had their data harvested by the political research firm Cambridge Analytica and how long Facebook keeps a user’s data after they have deleted their accounts. 
To Representative Frank Pallone, Democrat of New Jersey ... 
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would return with answers for Mr. Pallone on whether Facebook would change its default settings to minimize collection and use of user data. 
To Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan ...
The Facebook chief said he would follow up on the circumstances behind the company’s rejection of a political ad from a candidate for Michigan state senate. 
To Representative Eliot Engel, Democrat of New York ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would get back to Mr. Engel on artificial intelligence tools and other procedures being deployed to identify fake accounts that spread misinformation. 
To Representative Gene Green, Democrat of Texas ...
Mr. Zuckerberg’s homework for Mr. Green was answering how Facebook would apply the European Union’s coming General Data Protection Regulation privacy rules to users in the United States. 
To Representative Steve Scalise, Republican of Louisiana ...
Mr. Zuckerberg told Mr. Scalise he would come back with details about data that is mined for security purposes and whether it is sold, as well as whether Facebook employees responsible for the perceived censorship of the pro-Trump video personalities Diamond and Silk faced repercussions. 
To Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Republican of Washington ...
The Facebook chief said he would offer Ms. Rodgers more detail on how Facebook is ensuring fair treatment of users by content reviewers. 
To Representative G.K. Butterfield, Democrat of North Carolina ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he would circle back on an idea to convene a meeting of chief executives of technology firms to boost racial diversity in the industry. He added that he would get back to Mr. Butterfield with data on employee retention broken out by race.
To Representative Morgan Griffith, Republican of Virginia ...
Mr. Zuckerberg promised to look into the progress on extending broadband into rural areas. 
To Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan ...
Facebook’s chief said he would follow up with the number of Facebook “like” buttons and “share buttons” on non-Facebook pages. He also said he would get back to the Congresswoman on the time frame within which Facebook would respond to regulators’ requests for transparency. 
To Representative Ben LujÁn, Democrat of New Mexico ...
Mr. Zuckerberg said he planned to circle back on the average number of data points that Facebook keeps on non-Facebook users. Mr. Zuckerberg also said he did not know that number for Facebook users.
To Representative Leonard Lance, Republican of New Jersey ...
Mr. Lance, who is co-sponsoring a online privacy bill with Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, asked Mr. Zuckerberg whether Facebook will support the legislation after reviewing it. Mr. Zuckerberg said he would get back to him.
To Representative Adam Kinzinger, Republican of Illinois ...
And finally, Mr. Zuckerberg said he could get back to Mr. Kinzinger about how Facebook handles requests made by law enforcement in foreign countries, particularly Russia. 
Sheera Frenkel covers cybersecurity from San Francisco. Previously, she spent over a decade in the Middle East as a foreign correspondent, reporting for BuzzFeed, NPR, The Times of London and McClatchy Newspapers.@sheeraf
Tiffany Hsu is a breaking news reporter on the Business Desk. Before joining The Times in 2017 she covered economic news for The Los Angeles Times and earned an M.B.A. from Columbia University.@tiffkhsu
Advertisement