
By ALAN RAPPEPORT and JIM TANKERSLEYAPRIL 12, 2018

WASHINGTON — The Treasury Department has relinquished some of its authority over implementation of the Trump tax cuts, with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin ceding the ability to review regulations to the White House Office of Management and Budget, which is headed by Mick Mulvaney.
An agreement announced on Thursday by two of President Trump’s top economic advisers marks the end of a monthslong turf war that some tax experts feared could delay rollout of the law. The agreement centralizes more power within the White House, giving it more control over how the tax bill, including some of its murkier provisions, is interpreted.
The $1.5 trillion tax overhaul was rushed through Congress late last year and has left many lingering questions that the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service, which is part of the department, have been scrambling to answer. Key among those are what kinds of businesses qualify as “pass-through” companies that are eligible for a new 20 percent deduction and how broadly to apply the international tax provisions aimed at preventing large companies from shifting profits overseas.
Last year Mr. Trump called for a review of the Treasury’s exemption from the usual practice of the budget office doing cost-benefit analyses of regulations issued by government agencies, sparking a turf war between Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Mnuchin.
Advertisement
Under the new agreement, the White House budget office will review Treasury regulations that could create interference or inconsistencies with regulations from other agencies. It would also assess regulations that raise “novel” legal or policy issues, such as penalizing conduct through the tax code. And regulations that have a revenue effect on the economy of more than $100 million will receive additional scrutiny.
Advertisement
In its effort to maintain control over tax guidance, Treasury officials argued that giving the budget office final say would create additional layers of red tape that could slow implementation of a law the administration is hoping will provide an economic boost. They also argued that the budget office did not have sufficient tax policy expertise to properly scrutinize complex regulations.
To alleviate the concerns of business groups, the agreement creates an expedited process for the budget office to review regulations related to the 2017 tax law, completing such assessments in 10 days.
Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Mulvaney both claimed victory on Thursday.
“This updated review framework will increase scrutiny of regulations most likely to impose new costs, while preserving Treasury’s ability to ensure taxpayers receive timely, clear rules and guidance on how to comply with our tax code,” Mr. Mnuchin said. “Under today’s agreement, Treasury will continue to swiftly and successfully implement historic tax reform while still avoiding needless regulatory costs and delays.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Mulvaney called the deal “a reflection of tremendous coordination” between the Treasury and the budget office and said it would “promote economic growth and prosperity.”
A spokeswoman for the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, praised the deal on Thursday. “With this agreement, O.M.B. and Treasury have struck the right balance to ensure a transparent, careful and expeditious regulatory process,” the spokeswoman, Julia Lawless, said in an email. “Moving forward, Chairman Hatch will continue to work with the administration as they develop I.R.S. rules on the new tax law.”
But Democrats and some outside experts continued to raise concerns that the additional layer of review would bog down the law’s implementation and potentially open new avenues of confusion for businesses attempting to comply with the law.
“Small businesses are increasingly stuck in a bureaucratic twilight zone,” Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, said in a committee hearing on Thursday morning. “There is rampant confusion about how the new tax law works — untested policies, sloppy legislative drafting and outright mistakes in the law. On top of that, a Trump cabinet turf battle has been adding to the uncertainty and lengthening the time that small businesses are going to be in the dark about how the tax rules apply to them.”
Jennifer Abelaj, a senior counsel and tax expert at the New York law firm Davidoff Hutcher & Citron, said Thursday that “I am concerned that an additional level of review could result in unnecessary delays that make compliance more difficult, not to mention more expensive for taxpayers.”
“Already, there are many tax questions that need answers,” she said. “This policy change could throw a wrench — at least temporarily — in the carefully laid plans of taxpayers and their tax advisers.”
A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 2018, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Tax Law Turf Battle Ends With Treasury in Retreat.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe


We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »