
Advertisement
Supported by
TECH TIP
Google’s smartphone software includes a set of tools to help you type — but if they trip you up, turn them off.
By J. D. Biersdorfer
Q. I saw the recent instructions for disabling autocorrect on an iPhone, but what about those of us who use Android? How do I turn off the automatic-correction feature?
A. The exact steps vary based on your device and the particular version of Android you use, but for the typical system, start by opening the Settings app. On the main Settings screen, choose Languages & Input. In later versions of Android, select Virtual Keyboard. When you get to the list of keyboards and input methods, tap Android (or Google) Keyboard. On the next screen, select Text Correction. 
The Text Correction screen lists several controls, including a button to turn off autocorrect. You can also choose to enable or disable Android’s help when you type, including prompts for contact names and personalized suggestions based on your use of other Google apps, and you can decline suggestions for potentially offensive words. 
On some Samsung Galaxy phones, you can get to the keyboard software by opening the Apps icon on the home screen, tapping Settings and then General Management. From there, select Language and Input and then On-screen Keyboard. Tap the name of the keyboard you are using — usually Samsung Keyboard or a third-party keyboard app. The Smart Typing section of the Samsung Keyboard settings has all the controls for predictive text, auto replace (automatic correction) and other tools.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
J.D. Biersdorfer has been answering technology questions — in print, on the web, in audio and in video — since 1998. She also writes the Sunday Book Review’s “Applied Reading” column on ebooks and literary apps, among other things.@jdbiersdorfer
Advertisement