
Advertisement
Supported by
What You Get

24 Photos
View Slide Show ›
Madore Photography
By Julie Lasky
WHAT A house with six bedrooms and five and a half bathrooms
HOW MUCH $2.699 million
SIZE 5,467 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $494
SETTING This 1860 home, a former setting of a school for young children, is on the edge of Concord’s historic district, a 10-minute walk from the center of town and less than an hour northwest of Boston.
INDOORS A builder who acquired the house in 2004 performed a gut renovation, adding a large mudroom and an attached two-car garage with an upstairs bonus room. The current owners bought the property in 2012 and chose the lively wall colors.
The front door, which retains the push-bar on the inside from schoolhouse days, opens to a center hall. On the right is a burgundy-colored living and dining room with bay windows and decorative columns. On the left is a lavender parlor, formerly used as a faculty lounge, that serves as an office. The large kitchen flows into a second dining room and a family room with a fireplace; all are painted spring green.
Upstairs, the bay-windowed master suite has walk-in closets, a sitting room and a bathroom with marble flooring. Three additional bedrooms and two bathrooms are on the second floor; two bedrooms, a playroom and a bathroom are on the third floor.
The finished space under the gabled garage roof has a stone fireplace and a full bathroom.
OUTDOOR SPACE Sliding doors from the family room lead to a new stone patio and a fenced yard. The house sits on more than half an acre.
TAXES $28,810
CONTACT Sharon Mendosa, Mendosa-Balboni Team, Engel & Völkers, 978-580-0386; concord.evusa.com
•
WHAT A medieval-style castle with five bedrooms, five full bathrooms, two half bathrooms and a suit of armor
HOW MUCH $2.675 million (Bitcoin is accepted)
SIZE 5,845 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $458
SETTING Completed in 2011, the castle is in the East End neighborhood of Boise, on a street where houses have historically been warmed by underground hot springs. It is about two miles southeast of the Idaho state capitol building; downtown is visible from the crenelated roof. The building is made of sandstone, 90 percent of it quarried locally.
INDOORS Passing under a fixed iron portcullis, and pushing open a 220-pound door, one enters a foyer with a full suit of plate mail standing in a niche. (The armor goes by the name George and comes with the house.) The surrounding rooms have reclaimed hardwood floors and beams, plaster walls and a thoroughgoing baronial vibe. The living room fireplace is massive; the circular dining room befits a King Arthur-style table; and the gourmet kitchen has its own kitchen (a butler’s pantry with an island, a refrigerator and a copper sink). All of the floors have radiant heat.
The entire level upstairs is taken up by a master suite that includes a bedroom with leather walls and a fireplace; a walk-in closet; a bathroom with a plunge tub, steam room and shower room; an exercise room; a home theater with a wet bar; and an office.
Two additional bedrooms and bathrooms, as well as a second theater and a wine cellar, are on the first level, below the main floor. The top, or fourth, level has a roof deck. An elevator operates between all four floors, but you can also walk the 76 steps in the main tower.
A three-car garage that is attached to the house by a breezeway (downstairs) and a catwalk (upstairs) has a one-bedroom apartment with a full-size kitchen, living area and bathroom.
OUTDOOR SPACE The building sits on .37 acre and has a large stone patio in the backyard. The multilevel roof terrace, which can be lighted at night with flaming torches, includes an outdoor kitchen, a firepit, a bar, a jetted tub, a dragon fountain and a greenhouse.
TAXES $19,977 (2017)
CONTACT Missy Coman, Group One Sotheby’s International Realty, 208-484-8617; sothebysrealty.com
•
WHAT A 58-acre riverfront complex built in 1996 with a two-bedroom main house, a guesthouse with two units and a vineyard
HOW MUCH $2.7 million
SIZE 3,325 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT $812
SETTING The property is a mile and a half northeast of Abiquiú, a tiny place whose most famous resident was the artist Georgia O’Keeffe. It is about two hours by car from the Albuquerque airport and about an hour from Santa Fe.
INDOORS The main house has 16-inch-thick walls of Pumice-Crete, concrete floors, a metal roof with skylights and a screened porch. The central living area has pine cabinets and beams, a fireplace whose chimney rises to the top of the vaulted ceiling and an open kitchen with a white-quartz-topped peninsula. A dining room is off to the side.
This level also has a bedroom with a walk-in closet, a full bathroom and a powder room. A second bedroom and a study are upstairs in a loft-like space with a balcony overlooking the main floor.
A separate guesthouse shaded by a long veranda has two casitas, each with a private entrance, a full bathroom with Mexican tile and a wood-burning fireplace.
OUTDOOR SPACE In addition to the vineyard with its more than 6,000 vines, the property has strawberry and asparagus plants, alfalfa fields, a cottonwood grove, lines of poplar trees, flower gardens and a chicken coop. The Chama River runs along the border.
TAXES $7,229
CONTACT Emery or Dolores Maez, Keller Williams Realty, 505-469-0546; kw.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.



Advertisement