
Advertisement
Supported by
The Hunt
By Joyce Cohen
For decades, Gary Fritz lived in his family’s house in what is now known as Prospect-Lefferts Gardens, though to him it will forever be Flatbush.
When Mr. Fritz’s mother died last fall, the developer who had bought and flipped the vacant house next door expressed interest in the Fritz house, and made the family an offer. Mr. Fritz and his sister agreed to sell the house for around $600,000.
With his portion of the proceeds, Mr. Fritz, a percussionist and D.J., hoped to rent a new home with enough space for his music gear and decades of family furniture, heirlooms and antiques.
The prospect was overwhelming to Mr. Fritz, 61, who also does music production and is known as Wicked Gary Fritz. Three years ago, his daughter died in a bus accident in Panama while she was on vacation. “Between my daughter passing and my mom passing, I was accumulating all the family stuff,” he said. “When it came time to move, I was like, ‘What am I going to do with all this?’”
He knew that he wanted to remain near the area where his family had been for so long. His first approach was to canvass his friends.
“I put the word out and asked them if they had any leads at all to send me,” Mr. Fritz said. He posted a note on Instagram and Facebook, where his friend list had topped out at 5,000, forcing him to open a second account.
People responded in droves. Some mentioned Facebook’s Gypsy Housing groups, where people post listings. “I joined every Gypsy Housing thing I could find,” he said.
One posting there looked right: a three-bedroom in East Flatbush with more than 1,000 square feet, for $2,200 a month. He contacted the agent, Chanel Clark, of the Cobble Hill office of Citi Habitats.
The apartment had been on the market for weeks, possibly because of its distance from a subway stop, Ms. Clark said. “Gary needed a lot of space because he was downsizing from a house,” she said. “I was surprised that one person could use all that space.”
Mr. Fritz liked it. “Even if I couldn’t set up my music the way I wanted to, I had room to put all the stuff I needed to move,” he said.
But his timetable was unclear. The closing for the house sale was postponed several times, and without cash in hand from the sale, he couldn’t proceed with his move.
In the meantime, he teamed up with Ms. Clark to hunt for a place. She started with apartments in the low $2,000s.
“They were pretty decent spaces,” Mr. Fritz said. “Some of these buildings were brand-spanking new. If you ended up with a headache, you ended up with a brand-new headache rather than a recycled headache.” But not all were big enough for his needs.
Ground-floor or back units with yards were especially appealing, as he had tended a thriving garden behind his family house. “I’d go in my garden and come back inside and cook up a meal,” he said, adding that the overflow went to neighbors. “Everyone used to eat out of my yard.”
Ms. Clark urged him to increase his budget and to hunt farther afield.
A duplex on Pacific Street in Crown Heights, for $2,300, had three bedrooms covering 1,200 square feet, plus a backyard. But because Mr. Fritz was an independent contractor, the landlord was hesitant.
“Not everyone was willing to take a chance on him,” Ms. Clark said. “Some landlords prefer someone with a 9-to-5 job, a set salary and pay stubs.”
Another duplex in Bedford-Stuyvesant was the best of all. It had three bedrooms, three bathrooms, a cavernous finished basement and a backyard. The rent was $2,990.
At 2,500 square feet, it felt like a house “without all the maintenance hassle,” Ms. Clark said. “It is just massive. That apartment was for Gary.”
After viewing it, he said, “I looked up to the heavens and whispered to my daughter and my mom, ‘This one gets my vote.’”
The rent was on the high side, but Mr. Fritz decided the price was worth it. He was able to rent the garage, too — for a total of $3,100. The buyer of his family’s house gave him 90 days to clear it out, and he moved into his new home last winter.
Mr. Fritz paid a broker’s fee of 15 percent of a year’s rent, or just over $5,500. With the proceeds from the house sale, he was able to pay six months’ rent in advance.
As attached as he had been to the family homestead, it was falling apart, he said. While preparing to move, he was dismayed to find a basement leak that had damaged his beloved record collection. “The discovery nearly brought me to tears,” he said. He is salvaging what he can.
For the move, Mr. Fritz again turned to his many friends, who turned out en masse to help.
“It is people from all walks of life,” he said. “Those are my earth angels.”
Now Mr. Fritz uses the front bedroom as an office and one of the two back bedrooms for guests. The enormous basement, which has a washer-dryer, is his music studio, still a work in progress. And he has plans for a garden.
“It is a lovely space, and it’s the type of space that will make you a little bit envious,” he said. “Until you hear what I am paying for it.”
EMAIL thehunt@nytimes.com
For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.



Advertisement