
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
ATLANTA — A pair of perfectly placed ground balls helped the Atlanta Braves pull off an unexpected win over the New York Mets.
Johan Camargo tripled home the tying run, then scored on Ender Inciarte's bunt single as the Atlanta Braves scored twice in the ninth inning off Mets closer Jeurys Familia to beat New York 4-3 Saturday night.
It a took a rare game-tying triple in the ninth inning by Johan Camargo and a better walk-off bunt by Ender Inciarte off New York closer Jeurys Famila, who entered the game unscored upon and tied for the major league lead with eight saves.
A crowd of 41,396 that was the largest of the season at SunTrust Stadium saw starters Jacob deGrom and Julio Teheran each pitch seven scoreless innings.
After they left, the bullpens wilted.
Familia (1-1) issued a leadoff walk to Dansby Swanson and Camargo followed with a grounder right of second base that rocketed past diving second baseman Asdrubal Cabrera and snaked between outfielders Michael Conforto and Jay Bruce to right-center field the wall. That tied the game.
Camargo held when pinch-hitter Kurt Suzuki singled off the glove of Mets third baseman Todd Frazier, and after Familia struck out pinch hitter Charlie Culberson, Inciarte went to plate planning to swing away.
"I was going to swing the bat ... " Inciarte said. "Once I walked into the box and I saw Camargo at third, I always tell the runners be ready, I might bunt at any time."
Mets first baseman Adrian Gonzalez was at medium depth, and after Inciarte punched the ball at him with too much speed for Familia to field, the throw to the plate was too late to get the sliding Camargo.
"We had an idea he might do that. That's a really tough play to defend," said Mets manager Mickey Callaway. "You just have to hope he pops it up or something."
Each starting pitcher allowed just four hits. DeGrom struck out 10 and Teheran fanned six.
Atlanta lefty Sam Freeman replaced Teheran to start the eighth and Wilmer Flores, pinch-hitting for deGrom, drew a walk. Jose Reyes followed with his third hit, a perfect bunt.
Conforto followed with a grounder to third base and Camargo threw to second, where Ozzie Albies tried to turn a double play. But Albies dropped the ball and, a video replay reversed the call and ruled all runners safe.
With the bases loaded, Atlanta righty Shane Carle came on to face the right-handed Yoenis Cespedes, who flied out before Cabrera hit a two-run single. Jay Bruce added an RBI single.
Freddie Freeman hit a two-run double off Jerry Blevins in the bottom of the eighth.
Jesse Biddle (1-0) went one inning for the win in his debut.
"This is a good win for our club, to beat this team like that," said Atlanta manager Brian Snitker. "It's got to give our club confidence.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Mets: LHP Jason Vargas, who signed a two-year contract with New York in February after playing most recently for the Royals, is expected to make a final rehabilitation start Monday for Triple-A Las Vegas and then join the Mets' starting rotation. He has been out since surgery to remove a small bone in his non-pitching hand.
Braves: C Tyler Flowers, who has been sidelined since straining an oblique on opening day, is working with Triple-A Gwinnett. If all goes well, he may rejoin Atlanta as soon as next weekend.
DODGING A BOMB
Biddle's first big league game was exciting . . . and scary. With two outs and a runner on in the top of the ninth, Cespedes launched a ball down the left field line and third-base umpire Dan Iassogna signaled home run. After replay, the ball was called foul and he Cespedes grounded out.
"I don't want to say that my heart rate was ever too high when I was out there because I was trying to stay calm, and then he hit the ball and it popped my ears with how hard it was," Biddle said. "They called it fair, and that's when my heart started racing. I'm glad they got the call right."
ROSTER MOVE
The Braves selected the contract of Triple-A RHP Miguel Socolovich from Gwinnett, and sent righty Josh Ravin to Triple A Gwinnett.
UP NEXT
Mets: Right-hander Zack Wheeler (1-1, 2.77 ERA) will make his fifth career start in Atlanta, where he is 2-1 with a 1.93 although this will be his first start in SunTrust Park.
Braves: Righty Mike Foltynewicz (1-1, 2.53) will make his third start against the Mets since joining the Braves in 2015 and hope for better. In a relief appearance and two starts against New York, he's 0-1 with a 10.45 ERA in 10.1 innings vs. the Mets.
Advertisement