
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 24, 2018, 12:10 A.M. E.D.T.

NEW YORK —  For rookies Miguel Andujar and Gleyber Torres and most everyone else swinging a bat for the New York Yankees, this was an extra special evening.
Andujar homered and doubled to extend his barrage of extra-base blows, Torres got his first major league hit and the Yankees hammered the Minnesota Twins 14-1 Monday night.
"I saw all my guys hitting pretty well," Torres said. "I'm part of that."
Slumping Giancarlo Stanton homered in going 4 for 4 and Didi Gregorius hit a grand slam as the Yankees posted their first three-game winning streak under new manager Aaron Boone.
"Tonight was a great night, up and down," Boone said.
The teams hadn't met since New York topped the Twins 8-4 in the AL wild-card game last October at Yankee Stadium.
Advertisement
This was no contest as Minnesota lost its fourth in a row and brought in center fielder Ryan LaMarre to pitch in the eighth inning — Tyler Austin tagged him for a two-run homer.
Advertisement
Austin also doubled and had a career-best four RBIs. Along with their four homers, the Yankees hit four doubles.
"We've been playing from behind a lot, and I think that can be trying if you do it day after day," manager Paul Molitor said.
Andujar kept taking meaty cuts and delivered an extra-base hit in his seventh straight game — tied with Pittsburgh's Corey Dickerson for the longest streak in the majors this year. Andujar is 15 for 29 (.517) during that span with eight doubles, a triple and three home runs, raising his season average from .107 to .316.
The 23-year-old third baseman lined a solo drive into the left-field seats in the second inning and added a hard double.
"I just want to keep doing the same thing," Andujar said through a translator. "It's about sticking to the plan."
A day after making his debut, Torres singled in the eighth, ending an 0-for-7 start for the prized 21-year-old.
"It was cool," Boone said. "Hopefully, he can be on his way now."
Stanton hit a loud, long drive for his fifth homer, and Gary Sanchez boomed a two-run double. Both sluggers began the game batting under .190.
Advertisement
"Still battling, man," Stanton said. "Nothing's easy. Was good to get a few knocks."
Brian Dozier singled home Minnesota's run. He has a team-record 17-game hitting streak to begin a season, and a 24-game string dating to last year.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Masahiro Tanaka (3-2) gave up three hits in 6 2/3 innings and left with a 5-1 lead after not allowing a home run for the first time in five starts this year. He's won all five of his career outings against the Twins.
Jake Odorizzi (1-2) was pulled after Stanton's solo homer in the fifth.
NEWCOMER
After the game, the Yankees announced they had acquired RHP A.J. Cole from Washington for cash. The 26-year-old Cole was 1-1 with a 13.06 ERA in four games for the Nationals and was designated for assignment last week.
RHP David Hale was designated for assignment. He pitched two scoreless innings to finish Monday night's rout.
DID HIS BEST
LaMarre trotted from center field to the mound with one out and one on in the eighth. Throwing pitches in the low 70s mph, he got Aaron Hicks to pop out, then gave up Austin's homer. LaMarre retired Andujar on a grounder to end the inning.
LaMarre pitched once before in the majors, throwing a scoreless inning for Boston in 2016.
"You hate to be in that situation, just from a win-loss standpoint, because it's usually not good. But just try to get out of there and save a couple of arms hopefully for tomorrow," he said.
"I'm literally here to do whatever the team needs. If it's a matter of eating a few innings or just getting on the mound, I don't really care," he said.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Twins: OF Byron Buxton (migraines) was scratched from a Class A rehab game after fouling a ball off his foot. The Twins had hoped he could rejoin them Wednesday night in New York. He's now more likely be back this weekend when Minnesota hosts Cincinnati.
Yankees: INF Brandon Drury is set to play a rehab game Wednesday at Triple-A. He's been out because of migraines that have caused blurry vision. An aggravated tendon in the back of his neck has caused the trouble, and he's getting acupuncture and other treatment.
Advertisement
UP NEXT
Twins: RHP Jose Berrios (2-1, 1.63 ERA) starts Tuesday night. He took the loss last year in the AL wild-card game, allowing three runs and five hits over three innings in relief.
Yankees: LHP CC Sabathia (0-0, 2.70) makes his fourth start this season. He is 19-9 with a 3.16 ERA in 38 career starts against the Twins.
___
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.