
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
MIAMI — Dwyane Wade's first NBA game was in Philadelphia.
His last NBA game may have been there as well.
Retirement is a very — very — real option for Wade, who has been not-so-quietly saying for weeks that he isn't sure if he'll be back next season. The offseason is here now, after the Miami Heat were ousted by the 76ers on Tuesday night in Game 5 of their Eastern Conference first-round series, and the face of the franchise may have taken his jersey off for the final time.
He has not decided.
But some of his closest friends believe this could really be the end.
"I appreciate y'all concern," Wade said in Philadelphia on Tuesday night. "But we'll worry about that later."
Of course, his fans want him to come back. One prominent fan cast her vote before he even left the floor after Game 5.
"I hope this isn't the end, but my God," his wife, Gabrielle Union, wrote on Twitter. "Dwyane Wade has a career most people dream of. He is a damn legend. An icon. And he's cute."
No one, not even Wade, knows how long this process will take. He's going to talk to his wife. He's going to talk to his kids. He's going to talk to the Heat, and he's going to talk to the people within his inner circle that are trusted most.
Wade isn't a starter, but it could be argued the three-time NBA champion is still Miami's best player. Wade carried the Heat to victory in Game 2 and got them on the brink of a win in Game 4. He doesn't run as fast or jump as high as the version of himself known as Flash did, but he's still capable of delivering big moments.
If Wade is done, the last visions fans will have of his career will be with him in a Heat uniform, still doing his thing. That matters to him. He isn't Michael Jordan going out in a Washington jersey, or Patrick Ewing playing his last game with Orlando, or Shaquille O'Neal limping away from his NBA finale in Boston colors.
He wouldn't be going out on top, but he'd be going out in the right uniform and still playing at a high level.
One way or another, his career always was going to end in Heat colors anyway. He wasn't going out in a Chicago jersey, nor a Cleveland jersey. He had to wear "Heat" across his chest again, and when the Cavaliers traded him to Miami in February, it immediately became obvious that Wade was changing franchises for the final time.
Resume-wise, he's more than good. He's got three NBA championships. He's got an Olympic gold medal. He's going to the Basketball Hall of Fame. He's going to go down as one of the best two or three shooting guards in the history of the game. The only guys with as many points, rebounds, assists and blocked shots in their regular season and playoff careers as Wade? Jordan is one, LeBron James is the other.
Here's something else to consider: Wade has never wanted a farewell tour. He watched Kobe Bryant go through it, noted how much of a grind it was for the Lakers star, and doesn't want to hear the same questions in every road stop next season.
What's the motivation to return?
That's the unknown.
Wade is set financially. So this decision won't primarily be about money. Even after a brutal divorce and custody battle a few years ago, Wade will never worry about cash. He's well-invested, has deals that will continue working for him well after his playing days end, and will make millions next year whether he's wearing sneakers or suits.
The Heat have serious cap challenges and won't have a bankbreaking deal to offer Wade this summer. He won't play for the minimum. He won't get anywhere near the maximum. For him to return, it'll have to be worth his while. He spends a ton of money to keep his body right. And if Wade can make more off the court than on it next year, it might make sense for him to retire.
Plus, put simply, Wade wants more time with his family.
His oldest son, 16-year-old Zaire, is finishing his sophomore year of high school. Zaire can play. He gets attention because of his father's name, but his game is real. The next couple years will be critical to his development as a ballplayer, and his dad wants to have the time to share as much wisdom as he can.
So clearly, there are good reasons for Wade to retire.
But he can still play. And that might be the reason to come back, one more time.
___
Tim Reynolds is a national basketball writer for The Associated Press. Write to him at treynolds@ap.org
Advertisement