
Advertisement
Supported by
By The Associated Press
WASHINGTON — The Latest on Ronny Jackson's withdrawal from consideration for Veterans Affairs Secretary (all times local):
6:10 p.m.
White House records show embattled former Veterans Affairs nominee Ronny Jackson was in three incidents in government vehicles in the last five years, but none involved the use of alcohol and he was not found at fault.
The records also say the White House medical unit Jackson ran successfully passed regular controlled substance audits. The Associated Press reviewed the documents Friday. They were the result of an internal White House review of allegations raised against Jackson during his brief confirmation process.
Jackson withdrew his nomination Thursday after allegations by current and former colleagues raised questions about his prescribing practices, leadership ability and possible drunkenness on the job. Democratic Sen. Jon Tester's office collected the allegations.
The White House says the records disprove those allegations. Tester's office said it could not comment until it knew more about the White House records.
__
2:45 p.m.
President Donald Trump is calling White House doctor Ronny Jackson an "American hero" a day after Jackson withdrew from consideration for Veterans Affairs secretary in the wake of allegations about his conduct.
Trump says during a joint press conference with German Chancellor Angela Merkel that Jackson is "a great doctor" and "a great admiral" and says he thinks the allegations are "an absolute disgrace."
And he's comparing Jackson's situation to his own, saying he has been a victim of a false Russia collusion smear campaign.
Trump also says he called Jackson earlier Friday and told him that he's an American hero "in a very big way."
Trump says that despite what happened with Jackson, many people are interested in the VA job. He says that includes "some very political people" who might handle things differently.
___
1:30 p.m.
The U.S. Secret Service says it has no evidence to support an allegation that its personnel intervened to prevent White House doctor Ronny Jackson from disturbing former President Barack Obama during a foreign trip in 2015.
The Secret Service says it has conducted a "thorough review" of internal documents related to Obama's foreign trips in 2015 and interviewed people who were present.
They say they've found "no information that would indicate the allegation is accurate" and no record of any incident involving Jackson.
CNN reported allegations that Jackson drunkenly banged on the hotel room door of a female employee and that Secret Service personnel intervened out of concern he would wake Obama.
Jackson withdrew Thursday from being considered to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs amid a slew of allegations.
Advertisement