
By REUTERSAPRIL 28, 2018, 12:37 P.M. E.D.T.

SEVILLA —  Sevilla have sacked Italian coach Vincenzo Montella and reappointed their former manager Joaquin Caparros until the end of the season, the Liga club said on Saturday.
Montella suffered an eighth Liga defeat in 17 games since succeeding Eduardo Berizzo in December as Sevilla fell to a 2-1 defeat at struggling Levante in the league on Friday.
The former AC Milan and Fiorentina coach was dismissed four days after club president Jose Castro sacked sporting director Oscar Arias but said the board would keep faith with Montella until the end of the season.
Montella became the first coach to lead Sevilla into the Champions League quarter-finals after they knocked Manchester United out in the last 16 but he did not manage to win a game after their 2-1 triumph at Old Trafford.
Advertisement
They did reach the King's Cup final, where they suffered an embarrassing 5-0 defeat by Barcelona last Saturday at the Wanda Metropolitano, and Montella leaves them in seventh place, with their hopes of a Europa League spot hanging in the balance.
Advertisement
"Sevilla FC have dismissed Vincenzo Montella after the side's bad run of results since winning last in Old Trafford on the 13th of March. Since then, the Nervion side have gone nine games without a win, with five defeats," said a statement on Sevilla's official website.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Caparros has had a long coaching career in Spain and took charge of Sevilla between 2000 and 2005, winning promotion back to the top flight in 2001.
"The coach (Caparros) will lead the team in the 2017/18 run-in and will then stay linked with the club in a role which had already been determined once Sevilla's sporting structure had been reorganised," Sevilla said in a separate statement.
"After a call from president Jose Castro, the experienced coach did not hesitate to accepting control of the first team squad as the team pushes to qualify for European football in the season's four remaining games."
(Reporting by Richard Martin; Editing by Ken Ferris)
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.