
Advertisement
Supported by
Jessica Willow Killin and Rajeev Date were married April 28 in the Riviera Maya of Mexico. Luz Hernández, a civil registry judge, officiated, with assistance from Paula Riquelme, who acted as a translator during the ceremony, at Rosewood Mayakoba, a resort.
Later that day, the couple had a celebration in which the bride’s parents led an exchange of vows and rings, and the groom’s parents led the Hindu portion of the ceremony, which included the tying of the mangalsutra necklace.
The bride, 44, is a financial services policy expert and government relations specialist in Washington. She was until last year the lead Democratic lobbyist for USAA, a financial services group of companies based in San Antonio that provide military members and their families with insurance, banking and investment services. She also served in the Army, completing five years of active duty in Mannheim, Germany, with the rank of captain. She graduated from the University of Tampa and received a law degree from Georgetown.
The bride is a daughter of Terry E. Killin of Castle Rock, Colo., and a stepdaughter of Elizabeth A. Barnes. The bride’s father retired as the director of schools for the Douglas County School system in Castle Rock. Her stepmother retired as a teacher at Meadow Point Elementary School in Aurora, Colo.
The groom, 47, is the managing partner of Fenway Summer, a hybrid advisory and venture investment firm in Bethesda, Md. He previously served as deputy director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Washington. He graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, and received a law degree from Harvard.
The groom is a son of Dr. Usha V. Date and Dr. Vishvanath V. Date of Anaheim, Calif. The groom’s mother retired as a general practitioner in Anaheim. His father, a pulmonary specialist, retired as the chief of staff of the Mike O’Callaghan Military Medical Center at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada.
The bride’s first marriage ended in divorce, as did the groom’s.
The couple met in March 2015 at a bank regulatory conference held by the law firm Covington & Burling in Washington.
Advertisement