
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMAY 3, 2018, 7:25 P.M. E.D.T.

PHOENIX —  Arizona reliever Jorge De La Rosa threw a pair of run-scoring wild pitches during an eighth-inning rally that sent the Los Angeles Dodgers over the Diamondbacks 5-2 Thursday.
The Dodgers scored four times in the eighth and handed Arizona its first two-game losing streak this year. The four-game split ended the Diamondbacks' string of nine straight series victories to start the season.
Ketel Marte's RBI single put the Diamondbacks up 2-1 in the sixth, but the Arizona bullpen faltered in the eighth.
Fernando Salas (3-2) walked Chris Taylor and gave up singles to pinch hitter Chase Utley and Matt Kemp to load the bases with no outs. Cody Bellinger's sacrifice fly tied it, and De La Rosa relieved Salas.
Advertisement
A balk by De La Rosa moved the runners up and Austin Barnes — who earlier homered off Patrick Corbin — was walked intentionally to load the bases. With Kyle Farmer at the plate, De La Rosa threw two wild pitches, one of them deflecting off the catcher all the way to the third baseman, and each allowed a run to score. Farmer's RBI single boosted the lead to 5-2.
Advertisement
J.T. Chargois (1-0) pitched a scoreless seventh to get the victory. Kenley Jansen earned his fifth save with a perfect ninth.
Corbin allowed one run on three hits in six innings and looked in line to improve to 5-0 for the season until the bullpen meltdown.
Corbin and the Dodgers' Alex Wood were locked in a 1-1 game until Arizona took the lead in the sixth.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Paul Goldschmidt, just 1-for-15 in the series, reached on the third baseman Farmer's fielding error and A.J. Pollock singled. With one out, Marte singled to short left field and Goldschmidt slid in just ahead of Alex Verdugo's throw.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Dodgers: Manager Dave Roberts said 2B Logan Forsythe (right shoulder inflammation) is expected to go on a rehab assignment this weekend. ... RHP Rich Hill (finger infection) threw an abbreviated bullpen session as is scheduled to come off the DL and start against San Diego on Sunday in Monterrey, Mexico.
RYU INJURY
Roberts said Hyun-Jin Ryu has a severe groin strain that will sideline him sometime past the All-Star break. Ryu was hurt in the second inning of Los Angeles' 2-0 victory on Wednesday night. Walker Buehler, the 23-year-old top pitching prospect of the Dodgers, is "the logical choice" to take Ryu's spot in the rotation, Roberts said.
SOUZA DEBUT
Right fielder Steven Souza Jr. made his Arizona Diamondback and season debut after being sidelined since spring training with a strained right pectoral muscle. He was 0 for 4 with two strikeouts.
UP NEXT
Dodgers: Los Angeles heads south of the border for a three-game series against San Diego in Monterrey, Mexico. RHP Walker Buehler (1-0, 1.80 ERA) is expected to be called up from to make the start Friday night. LH Joey Lucchesi (3-1, 2.78) goes for the Padres.
Diamondbacks: RH Kris Medlen will come up from Triple-A Reno to take injured Robbie Ray's scheduled start Friday night's series opener against Houston, his first big league appearance in two seasons. RH Gerrit Cole (2-1, 1.73) starts for Houston.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.